  * [ The Swift Programming Language (6.2) ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language)
  * Structures and Classes 

# Structures and Classes

Model custom types that encapsulate data.

_Structures_ and _classes_ are general-purpose, flexible constructs that
become the building blocks of your program’s code. You define properties and
methods to add functionality to your structures and classes using the same
syntax you use to define constants, variables, and functions.

Unlike other programming languages, Swift doesn’t require you to create
separate interface and implementation files for custom structures and classes.
In Swift, you define a structure or class in a single file, and the external
interface to that class or structure is automatically made available for other
code to use.

Note

An instance of a class is traditionally known as an _object_. However, Swift
structures and classes are much closer in functionality than in other
languages, and much of this chapter describes functionality that applies to
instances of _either_ a class or a structure type. Because of this, the more
general term _instance_ is used.

## [Comparing Structures and Classes](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/classesandstructures/#Comparing-Structures-and-Classes)

Structures and classes in Swift have many things in common. Both can:

  * Define properties to store values

  * Define methods to provide functionality

  * Define subscripts to provide access to their values using subscript syntax

  * Define initializers to set up their initial state

  * Be extended to expand their functionality beyond a default implementation

  * Conform to protocols to provide standard functionality of a certain kind

For more information, see [Properties](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/properties), [Methods](/swift-book/documentation/the-
swift-programming-language/methods), [Subscripts](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/subscripts),
[Initialization](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/initialization), [Extensions](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/extensions), and [Protocols](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/protocols).

Classes have additional capabilities that structures don’t have:

  * Inheritance enables one class to inherit the characteristics of another.

  * Type casting enables you to check and interpret the type of a class instance at runtime.

  * Deinitializers enable an instance of a class to free up any resources it has assigned.

  * Reference counting allows more than one reference to a class instance.

For more information, see [Inheritance](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/inheritance), [Type Casting](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/typecasting),
[Deinitialization](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/deinitialization), and [Automatic Reference Counting](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/automaticreferencecounting).

The additional capabilities that classes support come at the cost of increased
complexity. As a general guideline, prefer structures because they’re easier
to reason about, and use classes when they’re appropriate or necessary. In
practice, this means most of the custom types you define will be structures
and enumerations. For a more detailed comparison, see [Choosing Between
Structures and
Classes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/choosing_between_structures_and_classes).

Note

Classes and actors share many of the same characteristics and behaviors. For
information about actors, see [Concurrency](/swift-book/documentation/the-
swift-programming-language/concurrency).

### [Definition Syntax](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/classesandstructures/#Definition-Syntax)

Structures and classes have a similar definition syntax. You introduce
structures with the `struct` keyword and classes with the `class` keyword.
Both place their entire definition within a pair of braces:

    
    
    struct SomeStructure {
        // structure definition goes here
    }
    class SomeClass {
        // class definition goes here
    }
    

Note

Whenever you define a new structure or class, you define a new Swift type.
Give types `UpperCamelCase` names (such as `SomeStructure` and `SomeClass`
here) to match the capitalization of standard Swift types (such as `String`,
`Int`, and `Bool`). Give properties and methods `lowerCamelCase` names (such
as `frameRate` and `incrementCount`) to differentiate them from type names.

Here’s an example of a structure definition and a class definition:

    
    
    struct Resolution {
        var width = 0
        var height = 0
    }
    class VideoMode {
        var resolution = Resolution()
        var interlaced = false
        var frameRate = 0.0
        var name: String?
    }
    

The example above defines a new structure called `Resolution`, to describe a
pixel-based display resolution. This structure has two stored properties
called `width` and `height`. Stored properties are constants or variables that
are bundled up and stored as part of the structure or class. These two
properties are inferred to be of type `Int` by setting them to an initial
integer value of `0`.

The example above also defines a new class called `VideoMode`, to describe a
specific video mode for video display. This class has four variable stored
properties. The first, `resolution`, is initialized with a new `Resolution`
structure instance, which infers a property type of `Resolution`. For the
other three properties, new `VideoMode` instances will be initialized with an
`interlaced` setting of `false` (meaning “noninterlaced video”), a playback
frame rate of `0.0`, and an optional `String` value called `name`. The `name`
property is automatically given a default value of `nil`, or “no `name`
value”, because it’s of an optional type.

### [Structure and Class Instances](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/classesandstructures/#Structure-and-Class-Instances)

The `Resolution` structure definition and the `VideoMode` class definition
only describe what a `Resolution` or `VideoMode` will look like. They
themselves don’t describe a specific resolution or video mode. To do that, you
need to create an instance of the structure or class.

The syntax for creating instances is very similar for both structures and
classes:

    
    
    let someResolution = Resolution()
    let someVideoMode = VideoMode()
    

Structures and classes both use initializer syntax for new instances. The
simplest form of initializer syntax uses the type name of the class or
structure followed by empty parentheses, such as `Resolution()` or
`VideoMode()`. This creates a new instance of the class or structure, with any
properties initialized to their default values. Class and structure
initialization is described in more detail in [Initialization](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/initialization).

### [Accessing Properties](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/classesandstructures/#Accessing-Properties)

You can access the properties of an instance using _dot syntax_. In dot
syntax, you write the property name immediately after the instance name,
separated by a period (`.`), without any spaces:

    
    
    print("The width of someResolution is \(someResolution.width)")
    // Prints "The width of someResolution is 0"
    

In this example, `someResolution.width` refers to the `width` property of
`someResolution`, and returns its default initial value of `0`.

You can drill down into subproperties, such as the `width` property in the
`resolution` property of a `VideoMode`:

    
    
    print("The width of someVideoMode is \(someVideoMode.resolution.width)")
    // Prints "The width of someVideoMode is 0"
    

You can also use dot syntax to assign a new value to a variable property:

    
    
    someVideoMode.resolution.width = 1280
    print("The width of someVideoMode is now \(someVideoMode.resolution.width)")
    // Prints "The width of someVideoMode is now 1280"
    

### [Memberwise Initializers for Structure Types](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/classesandstructures/#Memberwise-Initializers-for-Structure-Types)

All structures have an automatically generated _memberwise initializer_ ,
which you can use to initialize the member properties of new structure
instances. Initial values for the properties of the new instance can be passed
to the memberwise initializer by name:

    
    
    let vga = Resolution(width: 640, height: 480)
    

Unlike structures, class instances don’t receive a default memberwise
initializer. Initializers are described in more detail in
[Initialization](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/initialization).

## [Structures and Enumerations Are Value Types](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/classesandstructures/#Structures-and-Enumerations-Are-Value-Types)

A _value type_ is a type whose value is _copied_ when it’s assigned to a
variable or constant, or when it’s passed to a function.

You’ve actually been using value types extensively throughout the previous
chapters. In fact, all of the basic types in Swift — integers, floating-point
numbers, Booleans, strings, arrays and dictionaries — are value types, and are
implemented as structures behind the scenes.

All structures and enumerations are value types in Swift. This means that any
structure and enumeration instances you create — and any value types they have
as properties — are always copied when they’re passed around in your code.

Note

Collections defined by the Swift standard library like arrays, dictionaries,
and strings use an optimization to reduce the performance cost of copying.
Instead of making a copy immediately, these collections share the memory where
the elements are stored between the original instance and any copies. If one
of the copies of the collection is modified, the elements are copied just
before the modification. The behavior you see in your code is always as if a
copy took place immediately.

Consider this example, which uses the `Resolution` structure from the previous
example:

    
    
    let hd = Resolution(width: 1920, height: 1080)
    var cinema = hd
    

This example declares a constant called `hd` and sets it to a `Resolution`
instance initialized with the width and height of full HD video (1920 pixels
wide by 1080 pixels high).

It then declares a variable called `cinema` and sets it to the current value
of `hd`. Because `Resolution` is a structure, a _copy_ of the existing
instance is made, and this new copy is assigned to `cinema`. Even though `hd`
and `cinema` now have the same width and height, they’re two completely
different instances behind the scenes.

Next, the `width` property of `cinema` is amended to be the width of the
slightly wider 2K standard used for digital cinema projection (2048 pixels
wide and 1080 pixels high):

    
    
    cinema.width = 2048
    

Checking the `width` property of `cinema` shows that it has indeed changed to
be `2048`:

    
    
    print("cinema is now \(cinema.width) pixels wide")
    // Prints "cinema is now 2048 pixels wide"
    

However, the `width` property of the original `hd` instance still has the old
value of `1920`:

    
    
    print("hd is still \(hd.width) pixels wide")
    // Prints "hd is still 1920 pixels wide"
    

When `cinema` was given the current value of `hd`, the _values_ stored in `hd`
were copied into the new `cinema` instance. The end result was two completely
separate instances that contained the same numeric values. However, because
they’re separate instances, setting the width of `cinema` to `2048` doesn’t
affect the width stored in `hd`, as shown in the figure below:

![](/swift-book/images/org.swift.tspl/sharedStateStruct@2x.png)

The same behavior applies to enumerations:

    
    
    enum CompassPoint {
        case north, south, east, west
        mutating func turnNorth() {
            self = .north
        }
    }
    var currentDirection = CompassPoint.west
    let rememberedDirection = currentDirection
    currentDirection.turnNorth()
    
    
    print("The current direction is \(currentDirection)")
    print("The remembered direction is \(rememberedDirection)")
    // Prints "The current direction is north"
    // Prints "The remembered direction is west"
    

When `rememberedDirection` is assigned the value of `currentDirection`, it’s
actually set to a copy of that value. Changing the value of `currentDirection`
thereafter doesn’t affect the copy of the original value that was stored in
`rememberedDirection`.

## [Classes Are Reference Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/classesandstructures/#Classes-Are-Reference-Types)

Unlike value types, _reference types_ are _not_ copied when they’re assigned
to a variable or constant, or when they’re passed to a function. Rather than a
copy, a reference to the same existing instance is used.

Here’s an example, using the `VideoMode` class defined above:

    
    
    let tenEighty = VideoMode()
    tenEighty.resolution = hd
    tenEighty.interlaced = true
    tenEighty.name = "1080i"
    tenEighty.frameRate = 25.0
    

This example declares a new constant called `tenEighty` and sets it to refer
to a new instance of the `VideoMode` class. The video mode is assigned a copy
of the HD resolution of `1920` by `1080` from before. It’s set to be
interlaced, its name is set to `"1080i"`, and its frame rate is set to `25.0`
frames per second.

Next, `tenEighty` is assigned to a new constant, called `alsoTenEighty`, and
the frame rate of `alsoTenEighty` is modified:

    
    
    let alsoTenEighty = tenEighty
    alsoTenEighty.frameRate = 30.0
    

Because classes are reference types, `tenEighty` and `alsoTenEighty` actually
both refer to the _same_ `VideoMode` instance. Effectively, they’re just two
different names for the same single instance, as shown in the figure below:

![](/swift-book/images/org.swift.tspl/sharedStateClass@2x.png)

Checking the `frameRate` property of `tenEighty` shows that it correctly
reports the new frame rate of `30.0` from the underlying `VideoMode` instance:

    
    
    print("The frameRate property of tenEighty is now \(tenEighty.frameRate)")
    // Prints "The frameRate property of tenEighty is now 30.0"
    

This example also shows how reference types can be harder to reason about. If
`tenEighty` and `alsoTenEighty` were far apart in your program’s code, it
could be difficult to find all the ways that the video mode is changed.
Wherever you use `tenEighty`, you also have to think about the code that uses
`alsoTenEighty`, and vice versa. In contrast, value types are easier to reason
about because all of the code that interacts with the same value is close
together in your source files.

Note that `tenEighty` and `alsoTenEighty` are declared as _constants_ , rather
than variables. However, you can still change `tenEighty.frameRate` and
`alsoTenEighty.frameRate` because the values of the `tenEighty` and
`alsoTenEighty` constants themselves don’t actually change. `tenEighty` and
`alsoTenEighty` themselves don’t “store” the `VideoMode` instance — instead,
they both _refer_ to a `VideoMode` instance behind the scenes. It’s the
`frameRate` property of the underlying `VideoMode` that’s changed, not the
values of the constant references to that `VideoMode`.

### [Identity Operators](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/classesandstructures/#Identity-Operators)

Because classes are reference types, it’s possible for multiple constants and
variables to refer to the same single instance of a class behind the scenes.
(The same isn’t true for structures and enumerations, because they’re always
copied when they’re assigned to a constant or variable, or passed to a
function.)

It can sometimes be useful to find out whether two constants or variables
refer to exactly the same instance of a class. To enable this, Swift provides
two identity operators:

  * Identical to (`===`)

  * Not identical to (`!==`)

Use these operators to check whether two constants or variables refer to the
same single instance:

    
    
    if tenEighty === alsoTenEighty {
        print("tenEighty and alsoTenEighty refer to the same VideoMode instance.")
    }
    // Prints "tenEighty and alsoTenEighty refer to the same VideoMode instance."
    

Note that _identical to_ (represented by three equal signs, or `===`) doesn’t
mean the same thing as _equal to_ (represented by two equal signs, or `==`).
_Identical to_ means that two constants or variables of class type refer to
exactly the same class instance. _Equal to_ means that two instances are
considered equal or equivalent in value, for some appropriate meaning of
_equal_ , as defined by the type’s designer.

When you define your own custom structures and classes, it’s your
responsibility to decide what qualifies as two instances being equal. The
process of defining your own implementations of the `==` and `!=` operators is
described in [Equivalence Operators](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/advancedoperators#Equivalence-Operators).

### [Pointers](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/classesandstructures/#Pointers)

If you have experience with C, C++, or Objective-C, you may know that these
languages use _pointers_ to refer to addresses in memory. A Swift constant or
variable that refers to an instance of some reference type is similar to a
pointer in C, but isn’t a direct pointer to an address in memory, and doesn’t
require you to write an asterisk (`*`) to indicate that you are creating a
reference. Instead, these references are defined like any other constant or
variable in Swift. The Swift standard library provides pointer and buffer
types that you can use if you need to interact with pointers directly — see
[Manual Memory
Management](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/swift_standard_library/manual_memory_management).

  * [ Structures and Classes ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#app-top)
  * [ Comparing Structures and Classes ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Comparing-Structures-and-Classes)
  * [ Definition Syntax ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Definition-Syntax)
  * [ Structure and Class Instances ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Structure-and-Class-Instances)
  * [ Accessing Properties ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Accessing-Properties)
  * [ Memberwise Initializers for Structure Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Memberwise-Initializers-for-Structure-Types)
  * [ Structures and Enumerations Are Value Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Structures-and-Enumerations-Are-Value-Types)
  * [ Classes Are Reference Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Classes-Are-Reference-Types)
  * [ Identity Operators ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Identity-Operators)
  * [ Pointers ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures/#Pointers)

