# Apple Design Awards 2022

The Apple Design Awards honor excellence in innovation, ingenuity, and
technical achievement in app and game design.

Streaming is available in most browsers,  
and in the Apple Developer app.

[Watch without ASL](/design/awards/2022/)

# Inclusivity Winners

Winners in this category provide a great experience for all by supporting
people from a diversity of backgrounds, abilities, and languages.

## Procreate

### Savage Interactive Pty Ltd

This year, the world-class tool for artists and designers brought its creative
power to more people than ever. With new accessibility features—such as tremor
and motion filtering, an in-app assistive touch menu, audio feedback, and
color blindness settings—to augment its support of VoiceOver, Dynamic Type,
and more, the app empowers more artists to create, interact, and express
themselves.

Available on iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/procreate/id425073498/)

## Wylde Flowers

### Studio Drydock Pty Ltd

Powered by a refreshingly diverse storyline and cast of LGBTQIA+
representative characters, _Wylde Flowers_ is all about identity, accepting
others, and supporting your community. As the game begins, your
character—fresh off a breakup in the city—relocates to your grandma’s farm to
reset, recalibrate, and maybe meet some new people. But as the narrative
evolves to represent all ages, cultures, and sexualities, the game ultimately
tells a much larger story.

Available on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/wylde-
flowers/id1458605549/)

#### Finalists

##### [Letter Rooms Klemens Strasser ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/letter-
rooms/id1563407977/)

##### [Navi Good Snooze ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/navi-subtitles-
translation/id1573261774/)

##### [Noted. Digital Workroom Ltd ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/noted-
record-every-moment/id1149425482/)

##### [tint. Lykkegaard Europe Limited
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tint/id1451786388/)

# Delight and Fun Winners

Winners in this category provide memorable, engaging, and satisfying
experiences that are enhanced by Apple technologies.

## (Not Boring) Habits

### Andy Works LLC

As its (grammatically inventive) name suggests, (Not Boring) Habits adds a
little flair to the mild-mannered habit tracker. With its sensational designs,
playful haptics, and elegant gamification—your life-hack adventure plays out
as an inspiring journey through forests and mountains—it makes tracking your
habits a truly artistic experience.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/not-boring-
habits/id1593891243/)

## Overboard!

### inkle

_Overboard!_ is a whodunit with a twist: You done it. In this delightfully sly
murder mystery game, you play not as the detective but the guilty party who,
through quick-witted conversations with unsuspecting crewmates, tries to get
away with your splashy crime. And with a engaging narrative design, funny
hard-boiled dialogue, and multiple endings, it’s a case you can open again and
again.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/overboard/id1557505849/)

#### Finalists

##### [Chineasy Chineasy ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/chineasy-learn-
chinese-easily/id1318941705/)

##### [Moncage Optillusion
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/moncage/id1587860402/)

##### [Please, Touch The Artwork Studio Waterzooi
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/please-touch-the-artwork/id1447671288/)

##### [Water Llama Vitalii Mogylevets ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/water-
tracker-waterllama/id1454778585/)

# Interaction Winners

Winners in this category deliver intuitive interfaces and effortless controls
that are perfectly tailored to their platform.

## A Musical Story

### Glee-Cheese Studio

A harmonious mix of song, story, and artistic creation, _A Musical Story_
remixes the idea of what a mobile game can be. The game’s narrative unfolds
with a richly animated minimalism, the gameplay puts a novel spin on the
rhythm game, and the end result illustrates how seemingly disparate design
elements can work in perfect concert. Oh, and the music is pretty great too.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/a-musical-
story/id1584362594/)

## Slopes

### Breakpoint Studio LLC

_Slopes_ proves how seamlessly an app can integrate with an activity. This
remarkably intuitive skiing and snowboarding diary employs the GPS on your
iPhone or Apple Watch to track how far you’ve gone and how fast you went, and
its best-in-class social features gamify the experience by connecting with
friends and family—all by tapping a single button. Packed with a mountain of
data but as easy to navigate as a nice green run, it’s proves how a
thoughtfully designed app can elevate an experience.

Available on iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/slopes-ski-
snowboard/id643351983/)

#### Finalists

##### [Gibbon: Beyond the Trees Broken Rules
](https://apps.apple.com/app/gibbon-beyond-the-trees/id1482634476/)

##### [Transit Transit, Inc. ](https://apps.apple.com/app/apple-
store/id498151501/)

##### [Vectornator: Vector Design Linearity GmbH
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/vectornator-design-software/id1219074514/)

##### [What Remains of Edith Finch Giant Sparrow
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/what-remains-of-edith-finch/id1508051949/)

# Social Impact Winners

Winners in this category improve lives in a meaningful way and shine a light
on crucial issues.

## Gibbon: Beyond the Trees

### Broken Rules

_Gibbon_ is an ecological adventure in which you swing, fling, and slide your
way through gorgeous hand-drawn landscapes in search of your family. The
game’s unique mechanic provides plenty of free-flying fun, but its
environmentally conscious storyline—and the subtle empathy involved with
playing as another living being—teaches a crucial lesson.

Available on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/gibbon-beyond-the-
trees/id1482634476/)

## Rebel Girls

### Rebel Girls Inc.

_Rebel Girls_ shares the stories of history’s most influential women—Ruth
Bader Ginsburg, Simone Biles, and Frida Kahlo, to name just a few—through rich
audio and gorgeous original art. The subjects span careers, cultures, and
decades, and the voices and accompanying illustrations—all perfectly tailored
for the stories and interface—are furnished by female and non-binary artists
from around the world.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/rebel-girls-dream-
on/id1555126110/)

#### Finalists

##### [Active Arcade Nex ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/active-
arcade/id1553158383/)

##### [Empathy The Empathy Project ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/empathy-
loss-companion/id1536395192/)

##### [Headspace Headspace Health ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/headspace-
mindful-meditation/id493145008/)

##### [Wylde Flowers Studio Drydock Pty Ltd
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/wylde-flowers/id1458605549/)

# Visuals and Graphics Winners

Winners in this category feature stunning imagery, skillfully drawn
interfaces, and high-quality animations that lend to a distinctive and
cohesive theme.

## Halide Mark II

### Lux Optics

The brilliant camera app _Halide Mark II_ focuses on the essentials. This
elegant tool packs tons of features into a remarkably easy-to-navigate
interface; its uncluttered, smartly organized UI mimics a film camera, and its
every gesture will feel familiar to longtime photographers while remaining
clear to those finding their way around focus and exposure settings. It’s a
beautiful camera for iPhone—and, with a new version designed specifically for
the platform, iPad—that’ll help you create amazing visuals of your own.

Available on iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/halide-mark-ii-pro-
camera/id885697368/)

## LEGO® Star Wars™: Castaways

### Gameloft

With its cinematic feel, sizzling visual effects, and tactile gameplay (look
at those blocks fly!), Castaways is a force to be reckoned with. Set on a
long-abandoned planet, the game’s reverently rendered environments and smooth
animations instantly immerse you in a galaxy of action, mystery, and the
occasional dance party. And with endless customizations and characters to
meet, the adventure just builds and builds.

Available on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lego-star-wars-
castaways/id1474344996/)

#### Finalists

##### [Alien: Isolation Feral Interactive
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/alien-isolation/id1573029040/)

##### [Behind the Frame Silver Lining Studio under Akatsuki Taiwan
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/behind-the-frame/id1571194454/)

##### [MD Clock Hangzhou Midi Technology Co., Ltd.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/md-clock-live-in-the-present/id1536358464/)

##### [(Not Boring) Habits Andy Works LLC ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/not-
boring-habits/id1593891243/)

# Innovation Winners

Winners in this category provide a state-of-the-art experience through novel
use of Apple technologies that set them apart in their genre.

## MARVEL Future Revolution

### Netmarble Corp.

_Marvel Future Revolution_ is a technological feat worthy of Stark Industries.
This open-world action RPG brings the Marvel Cinematic Universe to stunning
life through a Metal-powered blend of fluid combat, lavish cutscenes, and a
multiverse’s worth of magnificently detailed character models.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/marvel-future-
revolution/id1453366542/)

## Odio

### Volst

The audio app _Odio_ delivers incredibly lifelike ambient sounds—waterfalls,
rushing rivers, lush electronic washes—made even more realistic with Spatial
Audio and head tracking. Soundscapes can be customized by manipulating their
mixes through a captivating circular interface, and each one is accompanied by
futuristic fluid animations that unfold in perfect synchronicity with the
sound. It’s a truly amplified take on the audio-visual experience.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/odio-spatial-
soundscapes/id1556016869/)

#### Finalists

##### [Active Arcade Nex ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/active-
arcade/id1553158383/)

##### [Focus Noodles ideaTiny Co., Ltd. ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/focus-
noodles/id1492424176/)

##### [Procreate Savage Interactive Pty Ltd
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/procreate/id425073498/)

##### [Townscaper Oskar Stålberg
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/townscaper/id1549531491/)

##### [View last year’s winners](/design/awards/2021/)

