# Design Pathway

Get started with this easy-to-navigate collection of videos, documentation,
and tools to build great apps and games.

##

Learn the building blocks of design

Design is where everything starts. It’s not just how people view your app, but
also how they interact with it. Design drives people’s experiences,
impressions, and feelings. And it can express core truths about how we process
information, make decisions, and interact with the world around us.

Start your design path by peeking behind the curtain of Apple’s design
principles in these video sessions from Apple designers and evangelists.
You’ll find out how Apple team members and the developer community get
inspired, learn how to create welcoming, empowering, and gratifying user
experiences, and find ways to simplify your navigation without compromising
personality.

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/42/2134/2134_wide_900x506_2x.jpg) The qualities of great
design ](/videos/play/wwdc2018/801/) [ ![](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/wwdc-services/images/7/1700/1700_wide_900x506_2x.jpg) Essential
design principles ](/videos/play/wwdc2017/802/) [ ![](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/10047/10047_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
Design foundations from idea to interface ](/videos/play/wwdc2025/359/)

##

Interface with the HIG

When you’re ready to dive deeper into design, the [Human Interface Guidelines
(HIG)](/design/human-interface-guidelines/) will be your best friend. The HIG
is the home for guidance and best practices for Apple platforms, a
comprehensive resource that you’ll rely on from first sketch to final pixel.
We’ll be honest: It’s pretty big. But we encourage you to get started by
exploring these introductory pages. From there, you can gradually begin to
branch out and see where your work takes you.

![](/design/get-started/images/platforms_2x.png) ![](/design/get-
started/images/platforms-dark_2x.png)

##### Getting started

Begin work on an app or game that feels at home on every platform you support.

[Learn more](/design/human-interface-guidelines/platforms)

![](/design/get-started/images/foundations_2x.png) ![](/design/get-
started/images/foundations-dark_2x.png)

##### Foundations

Learn to understand fundamental design elements.

[Learn more](/design/human-interface-guidelines/foundations)

![](/design/get-started/images/patterns_2x.png) ![](/design/get-
started/images/patterns-dark_2x.png)

##### Patterns

Get guidance on common actions, tasks, and experiences.

[Learn more](/design/human-interface-guidelines/patterns)

![](/design/get-started/images/components_2x.png) ![](/design/get-
started/images/components-dark_2x.png)

##### Components

Explore the system-defined components that give people a familiar and
consistent experience.

[Learn more](/design/human-interface-guidelines/components)

![](/design/get-started/images/inputs_2x.png) ![](/design/get-
started/images/inputs-dark_2x.png)

##### Inputs

Learn about the various methods people use to control your app or game and
enter data.

[Learn more](/design/human-interface-guidelines/inputs)

![](/design/get-started/images/technologies_2x.png) ![](/design/get-
started/images/technologies-dark_2x.png)

##### Technologies

Discover the Apple technologies, features, and services you can integrate into
your app or game.

[Learn more](/design/human-interface-guidelines/technologies)

##

Assemble your toolbox

Like all craftspeople, good designers need proper tools. Your list of
equipment begins with the Apple Design Resources, the building blocks of Apple
design. The Apple Design Resources include the fonts, icons, product bezels,
and other materials you’ll need to get started, as well as design templates
for Figma, Sketch, Photoshop, and Keynote. You’ll also want to explore SF
Symbols, a library of more than 6,000 symbols that integrate seamlessly with
Apple platforms.

  * [Browse the Apple Design Resources](/design/resources/)

##

Produce your prototypes

Prototyping is the art of generating, testing, and validating new ideas. Start
by setting aside a few hours for a tutorial that walks you through the basics
of the prototyping process. To get a little more insight into the process —
and travel back in time — check out a vintage but timeless video about what
prototyping can mean in practice.

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3/920/920_wide_900x506_2x.jpg) Prototyping: Fake it till you
make it ](/videos/play/wwdc2014/223/) [ ![](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/wwdc-services/images/7/1926/1926_wide_900x506_2x.jpg) 60-second
prototyping ](/videos/play/wwdc2017/818/) [ ![](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/D35E0E85-CCB6-41A1-B227-7995ECD83ED5/8170/8170_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
Design with SwiftUI ](/videos/play/wwdc2023/10115/)

##

Get inspiration from the developer community

The Apple developer community is an incredible source of groundbreaking ideas.
Find out how to get ideas, approach challenges, and solve problems.

  * [Browse design articles and developer profiles](/design/whats-new/)

Read the remarkable stories of Apple Design Award winners and finalists.

  * [Apple Design Awards](/design/awards/)

Check out the complete list of Apple Design Award winners and finalists.

  * [10 Questions with Design Evangelism](/news/?id=s8sl4tpa)

Get insights from Apple designers on everything from philosophy to
simplification to what you can do when something just doesn’t feel right.

  * [Meet the prototypers](/news/?id=97dgimaa)

Find out how members of the Apple Prototyping team create useful prototypes,
get external feedback, and bring a little sparkle to their work.

##

Go further

The tools and links above are enough to get you started — but they’re only the
beginning. The links below will help you explore the community, keep up with
the latest news, and get access to Apple tools and documentation. Don’t worry
about plunging into all this at once. Just keep in mind that all great
designers started on Day 1 with a basic set of tools, a blank canvas, and
their imagination. We can’t wait to see what you come up with.

  * [Find out what’s new in design](/design/whats-new/)

Discover the latest inspirational designs, videos, articles, resources, and
updates to design guidance.

  * [Browse videos](/videos/design)

Explore the full collection of WWDC design videos.

  * [Browse developer activities](/events/)

Join us in person and online for design workshops, labs, and appointments —
tailored for you.

