# Designing for iPadOS

People value the power, mobility, and flexibility of iPad as they enjoy media,
play games, perform detailed productivity tasks, and bring their creations to
life.

As you begin designing your app or game for iPad, start by understanding the
following fundamental device characteristics and patterns that distinguish the
iPadOS experience. Using these characteristics and patterns to inform your
design decisions can help you provide an app or game that iPad users
appreciate.

**Display.** iPad has a large, high-resolution display.

**Ergonomics.** People often hold their iPad while using it, but they might
also set it on a surface or place it on a stand. Positioning the device in
different ways can change the viewing distance, although people are typically
within about 3 feet of the device as they interact with it.

**Inputs.** People can interact with iPad using Multi-Touch
[gestures](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-
guidelines/gestures) and [virtual
keyboards](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-
guidelines/virtual-keyboards), an attached
[keyboard](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-
guidelines/keyboards) or [pointing
device](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-
guidelines/pointing-devices), [Apple
Pencil](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-
pencil-and-scribble), or [voice](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-
interface-guidelines/siri), and they often combine multiple input modes.

**App interactions.** Sometimes, people perform a few quick actions on their
iPad. At other times, they spend hours immersed in games, media, content
creation, or productivity tasks. People frequently have multiple apps open at
the same time, and they appreciate viewing more than one app onscreen at once
and taking advantage of inter-app capabilities like drag and drop.

**System features.** iPadOS provides several features that help people
interact with the system and their apps in familiar, consistent ways.

  * [Multitasking](/design/human-interface-guidelines/multitasking)

  * [Widgets](/design/human-interface-guidelines/widgets)

  * [Drag and drop](/design/human-interface-guidelines/drag-and-drop)

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-
ipados#Best-practices)

Great iPad experiences integrate the platform and device capabilities that
people value most. To help your experience feel at home in iPadOS, prioritize
the following ways to incorporate these features and capabilities.

  * Take advantage of the large display to elevate the content people care about, minimizing modal interfaces and full-screen transitions, and positioning onscreen controls where they’re easy to reach, but not in the way.

  * Use viewing distance and input mode to help you determine the size and density of the onscreen content you display.

  * Let people use Multi-Touch gestures, a physical keyboard or trackpad, or Apple Pencil, and consider supporting unique interactions that combine multiple input modes.

  * Adapt seamlessly to appearance changes — like device orientation, multitasking modes, Dark Mode, and Dynamic Type — and transition effortlessly to running in macOS, letting people choose the configurations that work best for them.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-
ipados#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-
ipados#Related)

[Apple Design Resources](https://developer.apple.com/design/resources/#ios-
apps)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-
for-ipados#Developer-documentation)

[iPadOS Pathway](https://developer.apple.com/ipados/get-started/)

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-ipados#Videos)

[ Elevate the design of your iPad app
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/208)

[ Meet Liquid Glass ](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/219)

[ Get to know the new design system
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/356)

