# Designing for watchOS

When people glance at their Apple Watch, they know they can access essential
information and perform simple, timely tasks whether they’re stationary or in
motion.

As you begin designing your app for Apple Watch, start by understanding the
following fundamental device characteristics and patterns that distinguish the
watchOS experience. Using these characteristics and patterns to inform your
design decisions can help you provide an app that Apple Watch users
appreciate.

**Display.** The small Apple Watch display fits on the wrist while delivering
an easy-to-read, high-resolution experience.

**Ergonomics.** Because people wear Apple Watch, they’re usually no more than
a foot away from the display as they raise their wrist to view it and use
their opposite hand to interact with the device. In addition, the Always On
display lets people view information on the watch face when they drop their
wrist.

**Inputs.** People can navigate vertically or inspect data by turning the
[Digital Crown](/design/human-interface-guidelines/digital-crown), which
offers consistent control on the watch face, the Home Screen, and within apps.
They can provide input even while they’re in motion with standard
[gestures](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures) like tap, swipe, and
drag. Pressing the [Action button](/design/human-interface-guidelines/action-
button) initiates an essential action without looking at the screen, and using
[shortcuts](/design/human-interface-guidelines/siri#Shortcuts-and-suggestions)
helps people perform their routine tasks quickly and easily. People can also
take advantage of data that device features provide, such as GPS, sensors for
blood oxygen and heart function, and the altimeter, accelerometer, and
gyroscope.

**App interactions.** People glance at the Always On display many times
throughout the day, performing concise app interactions that can last for less
than a minute each. People frequently use a watchOS app’s related experiences
— like complications, notifications, and Siri interactions — more than they
use the app itself.

**System features.** watchOS provides several features that help people
interact with the system and their apps in familiar, consistent ways.

  * [Complications](/design/human-interface-guidelines/complications)

  * [Notifications](/design/human-interface-guidelines/notifications)

  * [Always On](/design/human-interface-guidelines/always-on)

  * [Watch faces](/design/human-interface-guidelines/watch-faces)

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-
watchos#Best-practices)

Great Apple Watch experiences are streamlined and specialized, and integrate
the platform and device capabilities that people value most. To help your
experience feel at home in watchOS, prioritize the following ways to
incorporate these features and capabilities.

  * Support quick, glanceable, single-screen interactions that deliver critical information succinctly and help people perform targeted actions with a simple gesture or two.

  * Minimize the depth of hierarchy in your app’s navigation, and use the [Digital Crown](/design/human-interface-guidelines/digital-crown) to provide vertical navigation for scrolling or switching between screens.

  * Personalize the experience by proactively anticipating people’s needs and using on-device data to provide actionable content that’s relevant in the moment or very soon.

  * Use [complications](/design/human-interface-guidelines/complications) to provide relevant, potentially dynamic data and graphics right on the watch face where people can view them on every wrist raise and tap them to dive straight into your app.

  * Use [notifications](/design/human-interface-guidelines/notifications) to deliver timely, high-value information and let people perform important actions without opening your app.

  * Use background content such as [color](/design/human-interface-guidelines/color) to convey useful supporting information, and use [materials](/design/human-interface-guidelines/materials) to illustrate hierarchy and a sense of place.

  * Support Siri to help people access shortcuts on the Siri watch face.

  * Design your app to function independently, complementing your notifications and complications by providing additional details and functionality.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-
watchos#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-
watchos#Related)

[Apple Design
Resources](https://developer.apple.com/design/resources/#watchos-apps)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-
for-watchos#Developer-documentation)

[watchOS Pathway](https://developer.apple.com/watchos/get-started/)

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-watchos#Videos)

[ What’s new in watchOS 26
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/334)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-
watchos#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 5, 2023| Enhanced guidance for providing a glanceable, focused app
experience, and emphasized the importance of the Digital Crown in navigation.

