July 28, 2025

Added guidance for representing menu items with icons.

# Menus

A menu reveals its options when people interact with it, making it a space-
efficient way to present commands in your app or game.

Menus are ubiquitous in apps and games, so most people already know how to use
them. Whether you use system-provided components or custom ones, people expect
menus to behave in familiar ways. For example, people understand that opening
a menu reveals one or more _menu items_ , each of which represents a command,
option, or state that affects the current selection or context. The guidance
for labeling and organizing menu items applies to all types of menus in all
experiences.

Note

Several system-provided components also include menus that support specific
use cases. For example, a [pop-up button](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/pop-up-buttons) or [pull-down button](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/pull-down-buttons) can reveal a menu of options directly related to
its action; a [context menu](/design/human-interface-guidelines/context-menus)
lets people access a small number of frequently used actions relevant to their
current view or task; and in macOS and iPadOS, [menu bar](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/the-menu-bar) menus contain all the commands people can
perform in the app or game.

## [Labels](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Labels)

A menu item’s label describes what it does and may include a symbol if it
helps to clarify meaning. In an app, a menu item can also display the
associated keyboard command, if there is one; in a game, a menu item rarely
displays a keyboard command because a game typically needs to handle input
from a wider range of devices and may offer game-specific mappings for various
keys.

Note

Depending on menu layout, an iOS, iPadOS, or visionOS app can display a few
unlabeled menu items that use only symbols or icons to identify them. For
guidance, see [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#visionOS)
and [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#iOS-iPadOS).

**For each menu item, write a label that clearly and succinctly describes
it.** In general, label a menu item that initiates an action using a verb or
verb phrase that describes the action, such as View, Close, or Select. For
guidance labeling menu items that show and hide something in the interface or
show the currently selected state of something, see [Toggled
items](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Toggled-items). As with all
the copy you write, let your app’s or game’s communication style guide the
tone of the menu-item labels you create.

**To be consistent with platform experiences, use title-style
capitalization.** Although a game might have a different writing style,
generally prefer using title-style capitalization, which capitalizes every
word except articles, coordinating conjunctions, and short prepositions, and
capitalizes the last word in the label, regardless of the part of speech. For
complete guidance on this style of capitalization in English, see [title-style
capitalization](https://support.apple.com/guide/applestyleguide/c-apsgb744e4a3/web#apdca93e113f1d64).

**Remove articles like _a_ , _an_ , and _the_ from menu-item labels to save
space.** In English, articles always lengthen labels, but rarely enhance
understanding. For example, changing a menu-item label from View Settings to
View the Settings doesn’t provide additional clarification.

**Show people when a menu item is unavailable.** An unavailable menu item
often appears dimmed and doesn’t respond to interactions. If all of a menu’s
items are unavailable, the menu itself needs to remain available so people can
open it and learn about the commands it contains.

**Append an ellipsis to a menu item’s label when the action requires more
information before it can complete.** The ellipsis character (…) signals that
people need to input information or make additional choices, typically within
another view.

## [Icons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Icons)

**Represent menu item actions with familiar icons.** Icons help people
recognize common actions throughout your app. Use the same icons as the system
to represent actions such as Copy, Share, and Delete, wherever they appear.
For a list of icons that represent common actions, see [Standard
icons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/icons#Standard-icons).

**Don’t display an icon if you can’t find one that clearly represents the menu
item.** Not all menu items need an icon. Be careful when adding icons for
custom menu items to avoid confusion with other existing actions, and don’t
add icons just for the sake of ornamentation.

**Use a single icon to introduce a group of similar items.** Instead of adding
individual icons for each action, or reusing the same icon for all of them,
establish a common theme with the symbol for the first item and rely on the
menu item text to keep the remaining items distinct.

## [Organization](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Organization)

Organizing menu items in ways that reflect how people use your app or game can
make your experience feel straightforward and easy to use.

**Prefer listing important or frequently used menu items first.** People tend
to start scanning a menu from the top, so listing high-priority items first
often means that people can find what they want without reading the entire
menu.

**Consider grouping logically related items.** For example, grouping editing
commands like Copy, Cut, and Paste or camera commands like Look Up, Look Down,
and Look Left can help people remember where to find them. To help people
visually distinguish such groups, use a separator. Depending on the platform
and type of menu, a _separator_ appears between groups of items as a
horizontal line or a short gap in the menu’s background appearance.

**Prefer keeping all logically related commands in the same group, even if the
commands don’t all have the same importance.** For example, people generally
use Paste and Match Style much less often than they use Paste, but they expect
to find both commands in the same group that contains more frequently used
editing commands like Copy and Cut.

**Be mindful of menu length.** People need more time and attention to read a
long menu, which means they may miss the command they want. If a menu is too
long, consider dividing it into separate menus. Alternatively, you might be
able to use a submenu to shorten the list, such as listing difficulty levels
in a submenu of a New Game menu item. The exception is when a menu contains
user-defined or dynamically generated content, like the History and Bookmarks
menus in Safari. People expect such a menu to accommodate all the items they
add to it, so a long menu is fine, and scrolling is acceptable.

## [Submenus](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Submenus)

Sometimes, a menu item can reveal a set of closely related items in a
subordinate list called a _submenu_. A menu item indicates the presence of a
submenu by displaying a symbol — like a chevron — after its label. Submenus
are functionally identical to menus, aside from their hierarchical
positioning.

**Use submenus sparingly.** Each submenu adds complexity to the interface and
hides the items it contains. You might consider creating a submenu when a term
appears in more than two menu items in the same group. For example, instead of
offering separate menu items for Sort by Date, Sort by Score, and Sort by
Time, a game could present a menu item that uses a submenu to list the sorting
options Date, Score, and Time. It generally works well to use the repeated
term — in this case, _Sort by_ — in the menu item’s label to help people
predict the contents of the submenu.

**Limit the depth and length of submenus.** It can be difficult for people to
reveal multiple levels of hierarchical submenus, so it’s generally best to
restrict them to a single level. Also, if a submenu contains more than about
five items, consider creating a new menu.

**Make sure a submenu remains available even when its nested menu items are
unavailable.** A submenu item — like all menu items — needs to let people open
it and learn about the commands it contains.

**Prefer using a submenu to indenting menu items.** Using indentation is
inconsistent with the system and doesn’t clearly express the relationships
between the menu items.

## [Toggled items](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Toggled-items)

Menu items often represent attributes or objects that people can turn on or
off. If you want to avoid listing a separate menu item for each state, it can
be efficient to create a single, toggled menu item that communicates the
current state and lets people change it.

**Consider using a changeable label that describes an item’s current state.**
For example, instead of listing two menu items like Show Map and Hide Map, you
could include one menu item whose label changes from Show Map to Hide Map,
depending on whether the map is visible.

**Include a verb if a changeable label isn’t clear enough.** For example,
people might not know whether the changeable labels HDR On and HDR Off
describe actions or states. If you needed to clarify that these items
represent actions, you could add verbs to the labels, like Turn HDR On and
Turn HDR Off.

**If necessary, display both menu items instead of one toggled item.**
Sometimes, it helps people to view both actions or states at the same time.
For example, a game could list both Take Account Online and Take Account
Offline items, so when someone’s account is online, only the Take Account
Offline menu item appears available.

**Consider using a checkmark to show that an attribute is currently in
effect.** It’s easy for people to scan for checkmarks in a list of attributes
to find the ones that are selected. For example, in the standard Format > Font
menu, checkmarks can make it easy for people notice the styles that apply to
selected text.

**Consider offering a menu item that makes it easy to remove multiple toggled
attributes.** For example, if you let people apply several styles to selected
text, it can work well to provide a menu item — such as Plain — that removes
all applied formatting attributes at one time.

## [In-game menus](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#In-game-menus)

In-game menus give players ways to control gameplay as well as determine
[settings](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-
guidelines/settings) for the game as a whole.

**Let players navigate in-game menus using the platform’s default interaction
method.** People expect to use the same interactions to navigate your menus as
they use for navigating other menus on the device. For example, players expect
to navigate your game menus using touch in iOS and iPadOS, and direct and
indirect gestures in visionOS.

**Make sure your menus remain easy to open and read on all platforms you
support.** Each platform defines specific sizes that work best for fonts and
interaction targets. Sometimes, scaling your game content to display on a
different screen — especially a mobile device screen — can make in-game menus
too small for people to read or interact with. If this happens, modify the
size of the tap targets and consider alternative ways to communicate the
menu’s content. For guidance, see [Typography](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/typography) and [Touch controls](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/game-controls#Touch-controls).

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/menus#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for macOS, tvOS, or watchOS._

### [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#iOS-iPadOS)

In iOS and iPadOS, a menu can display items in one of the following three
layouts.

![A diagram showing small, medium, and large menu layouts, each containing the
same set of menu items.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/d04cabb2d7b38602590cd6d59d79a0a0/small-
medium-large-menu-layouts%402x.png)

  * **Small.** A row of four items appears at the top of the menu, above a list that contains the remaining items. For each item in the top row, the menu displays a symbol or icon, but no label.

  * **Medium.** A row of three items appears at the top of the menu, above a list that contains the remaining items. For each item in the top row, the menu displays a symbol or icon above a short label.

  * **Large (the default).** The menu displays all items in a list.

For developer guidance, see
[`preferredElementSize`](/documentation/UIKit/UIMenu/preferredElementSize).

**Choose a small or medium menu layout when it can help streamline people’s
choices.** Consider using the medium layout if your app has three important
actions that people often want to perform. For example, Notes uses the medium
layout to give people a quick way to perform the Scan, Lock, and Pin actions.
Use the small layout only for closely related actions that typically appear as
a group, such as Bold, Italic, Underline, and Strikethrough. For each action,
use a recognizable symbol that helps people identify the action without a
label.

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#visionOS)

In visionOS, a menu can display items using the small or large layout styles
that iOS and iPadOS define (for guidance, see [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/menus#iOS-iPadOS)). As in macOS, an open menu in a
visionOS window can appear outside of the window’s boundaries.

**When possible, prefer displaying a menu near the content it controls.**
Because people need to look at a menu item before tapping it, they might miss
the item’s effect if the content it controls is too far away.

![A partial screenshot showing an app window in visionOS. The window contains
several buttons, including a 'More' button, which is selected. A menu
containing a list of actions is displayed beneath the button.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/b424693063f332d9edd65d555fec417e/visionos-
notes-menu-popover-style%402x.png)

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Related)

[Pop-up buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/pop-up-buttons)

[Pull-down buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/pull-down-buttons)

[Context menus](/design/human-interface-guidelines/context-menus)

[The menu bar](/design/human-interface-guidelines/the-menu-bar)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/menus#Developer-documentation)

[`Menu`](/documentation/SwiftUI/Menu) — SwiftUI

[Menus and shortcuts](/documentation/UIKit/menus-and-shortcuts) — UIKit

[Menus](/documentation/AppKit/menus) — AppKit

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
July 28, 2025| Added guidance for representing menu items with icons.  
June 10, 2024| Added guidance for in-game menus and included game-specific
examples.  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.  
September 14, 2022| Added guidelines for using the small, medium, and large
menu layouts in iPadOS.

