# Privacy

Privacy is paramount: it’s critical to be transparent about the privacy-
related data and resources you require and essential to protect the data
people allow you to access.

People use their devices in very personal ways and they expect apps to help
them preserve their privacy.

When you submit a new or updated app, you must provide details about your
privacy practices and the privacy-relevant data you collect so the App Store
can display the information on your product page. (You can manage this
information at any time in [App Store Connect](https://help.apple.com/app-
store-connect/#/dev1b4647c5b).) People use the privacy details on your product
page to make an informed decision before they download your app. To learn
more, see [App privacy details on the App
Store](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/app-privacy-details/).

An app’s App Store product page helps people understand the app’s privacy
practices before they download it.

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Best-practices)

**Request access only to data that you actually need.** Asking for more data
than a feature needs — or asking for data before a person shows interest in
the feature — can make it hard for people to trust your app. Give people
precise control over their data by making your permission requests as specific
as possible.

**Be transparent about how your app collects and uses people’s data.** People
are less likely to be comfortable sharing data with your app if they don’t
understand exactly how you plan to use it. Always respect people’s choices to
use system features like Hide My Email and Mail Privacy Protection, and be
sure you understand your obligations with regard to app tracking. To learn
more about Apple privacy features, see
[Privacy](https://www.apple.com/privacy/); for developer guidance, see [User
privacy and data use](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/user-privacy-and-
data-use/).

**Process data on the device where possible.** In iOS, for example, you can
take advantage of the Apple Neural Engine and custom CreateML models to
process the data right on the device, helping you avoid lengthy and
potentially risky round trips to a remote server.

**Adopt system-defined privacy protections and follow security best
practices.** For example, in iOS 15 and later, you can rely on CloudKit to
provide encryption and key management for additional data types, like strings,
numbers, and dates.

## [Requesting permission](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/privacy#Requesting-permission)

Here are several examples of the things you must request permission to access:

  * Personal data, including location, health, financial, contact, and other personally identifying information

  * User-generated content like emails, messages, calendar data, contacts, gameplay information, Apple Music activity, HomeKit data, and audio, video, and photo content

  * Protected resources like Bluetooth peripherals, home automation features, Wi-Fi connections, and local networks

  * Device capabilities like camera and microphone

  * In a visionOS app running in a Full Space, ARKit data, such as hand tracking, plane estimation, image anchoring, and world tracking

  * The device’s advertising identifier, which supports app tracking

The system provides a standard alert that lets people view each request you
make. You supply copy that describes why your app needs access, and the system
displays your description in the alert. People can also view the description —
and update their choice — in Settings > Privacy.

**Request permission only when your app clearly needs access to the data or
resource.** It’s natural for people to be suspicious of a request for personal
information or access to a device capability, especially if there’s no obvious
need for it. Ideally, wait to request permission until people actually use an
app feature that requires access. For example, you can use the [location
button](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Location-button) to give
people a way to share their location after they indicate interest in a feature
that needs that information.

**Avoid requesting permission at launch unless the data or resource is
required for your app to function.** People are less likely to be bothered by
a launch-time request when it’s obvious why you’re making it. For example,
people understand that a navigation app needs access to their location before
they can benefit from it. Similarly, before people can play a visionOS game
that lets them bounce virtual objects off walls in their surroundings, they
need to permit the game to access information about their surroundings.

**Write copy that clearly describes how your app uses the ability, data, or
resource you’re requesting.** The standard alert displays your copy (called a
_purpose string_ or _usage description string_) after your app name and before
the buttons people use to grant or deny their permission. Aim for a brief,
complete sentence that’s straightforward, specific, and easy to understand.
Use sentence case, avoid passive voice, and include a period at the end. For
developer guidance, see [Requesting access to protected
resources](/documentation/UIKit/requesting-access-to-protected-resources) and
[App Tracking Transparency](/documentation/AppTrackingTransparency).

| Example purpose string| Notes  
---|---|---  
| The app records during the night to detect snoring sounds.| An active
sentence that clearly describes how and why the app collects the data.  
| Microphone access is needed for a better experience.| A passive sentence
that provides a vague, undefined justification.  
| Turn on microphone access.| An imperative sentence that doesn’t provide any
justification.  
  
Here are several examples of the standard system alert:

  * Example 1 
  * Example 2 
  * Example 3 

![A screenshot of a permission alert for a social media app displaying a
purpose string that reads Social Media Would Like to Access Your Photos. Allow
access to photos to upload photos from your library. The string is followed by
three buttons in a stack. From the top, the buttons are titled Select Photos,
Allow Access to All Photos, and Don’t Allow.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/6143de7f950793edc8d632a54bf5d2bb/privacy-
social-media-post-photo-alert%402x.png)

![A screenshot of a permission alert for a social media app displaying a
purpose string that reads Social Media Would Like to Access Your Contacts.
Find friends using Social Media and add them to your network. The string is
followed by two side-by-side buttons: Don’t Allow and Allow.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/9a0f4d978424e52a782b4f1596426415/privacy-
social-media-friends-contacts-alert%402x.png)

### [Pre-alert screens, windows, or views](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/privacy#Pre-alert-screens-windows-or-views)

Ideally, the current context helps people understand why you’re requesting
their permission. If it’s essential to provide additional details, you can
display a custom screen or window before the system alert appears. The
following guidelines apply to custom views that display before system alerts
that request permission to access protected data and resources, including
camera, microphone, location, contact, calendar, and tracking.

**Include only one button and make it clear that it opens the system alert.**
People can feel manipulated when a custom screen or window also includes a
button that doesn’t open the alert because the experience diverts them from
making their choice. Another type of manipulation is using a term like “Allow”
to title the custom screen’s button. If the custom button seems similar in
meaning and visual weight to the allow button in the alert, people can be more
likely to choose the alert’s allow button without meaning to. Use a term like
“Continue” or “Next” to title the single button in your custom screen or
window, clarifying that its action is to open the system alert.

![A screenshot of an app's pre-alert screen that reads Turning on location
services allows us to provide features like: alerts when your friends are
nearby, news of events happening near you, tagging and sharing your location.
You can change this later in the Settings app. Below the text is a button
titled Next.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/bda87e1bb5098ab79fee0d0a3be3a10b/privacy-
custom-messaging-correct%402x.png)

![A checkmark in a circle to indicate a correct example.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/88662da92338267bb64cd2275c84e484/checkmark%402x.png)

**Don’t include additional actions in your custom screen or window.** For
example, don’t provide a way for people to leave the screen or window without
viewing the system alert — like offering an option to close or cancel.

![A screenshot of an app’s pre-alert screen that includes a button titled
Cancel that appears below the Next button.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/56cc76fcd5f87de8dae06080b81358f2/privacy-
custom-messaging-incorrect-cancel-button%402x.png)

![An X in a circle to indicate an incorrect example.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/209f6f0fc8ad99d9bf59e12d82d06584/crossout%402x.png)Don’t
include an option to cancel.

![A screenshot of an app’s pre-alert screen that includes a Close button in
the top-left corner. The Next button appears near the bottom of the
screen.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/a5cb7d6881eb22e248afd3f806743f67/privacy-
custom-messaging-incorrect-close-button%402x.png)

![An X in a circle to indicate an incorrect example.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/209f6f0fc8ad99d9bf59e12d82d06584/crossout%402x.png)Don’t
include an option to close the view.

### [Tracking requests](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Tracking-
requests)

App tracking is a sensitive issue. In some cases, it might make sense to
display a custom screen or window that describes the benefits of tracking. If
you want to perform app tracking as soon as people launch your app, you must
display the system-provided alert before you collect any tracking data.

**Never precede the system-provided alert with a custom screen or window that
could confuse or mislead people.** People sometimes tap quickly to dismiss
alerts without reading them. A custom messaging screen, window, or view that
takes advantage of such behaviors to influence choices will lead to rejection
by App Store review.

There are several prohibited custom-screen designs that will cause rejection.
Some examples are offering incentives, displaying a screen or window that
looks like a request, displaying an image of the alert, and annotating the
screen behind the alert (as shown below). To learn more, see [App Review
Guidelines: 5.1.1 (iv)](https://developer.apple.com/app-
store/review/guidelines/#data-collection-and-storage).

  * Incentive 
  * Imitation request 
  * Alert image 
  * Alert annotation 

![A screenshot of an app’s pre-tracking message that reads Allow tracking and
get a $100 credit toward your next purchase. Below the text is an image of a
dollar sign inside a circle. Below the image is a button titled Get $100
credit.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/6000f4e89c244b12c8438aec034f7d1b/privacy-
custom-messaging-prohibited-incentive%402x.png)

![An X in a circle to indicate an incorrect example.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/209f6f0fc8ad99d9bf59e12d82d06584/crossout%402x.png)Don’t
offer incentives for granting the request. You can’t offer people compensation
for granting their permission, and you can’t withhold functionality or content
or make your app unusable until people allow you to track them.

![A screenshot of an app’s pre-tracking message that reads Allow tracking for
a better experience. Below the text is a bar graph image that shows four bars
increasing in height from left to right. Below the graph is a button titled
Allow Tracking.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/f1d292d13b6548e9eb72397e0d3ad760/privacy-
custom-messaging-prohibited-imitation%402x.png)

![An X in a circle to indicate an incorrect example.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/209f6f0fc8ad99d9bf59e12d82d06584/crossout%402x.png)Don’t
display a custom screen that mirrors the functionality of the system alert. In
particular, don’t create a button title that uses “Allow” or similar terms,
because people don’t allow anything in a pre-alert screen.

![A screenshot of an app’s pre-tracking message that reads Choose Allow when
prompted. Below the text is an image of the system-provided alert. Below the
image is a button titled Continue. The Allow While Using the App button in the
system-provided alert image is circled.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/5ae208fd0806ac0d7e89f9939a93c6e5/privacy-
custom-messaging-prohibited-alert%402x.png)

![An X in a circle to indicate an incorrect example.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/209f6f0fc8ad99d9bf59e12d82d06584/crossout%402x.png)Don’t
show an image of the standard alert and modify it in any way.

![A screenshot of an app’s pre-tracking message that reads Allow tracking for
a better experience. The app’s custom screen also includes an upward-pointing
arrow and the words Choose Allow in the lower third of the
screen.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/780cf726198155101ee7cff6d786669f/privacy-
custom-messaging-prohibited-alert-annotation%402x.png)

![An X in a circle to indicate an incorrect example.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/209f6f0fc8ad99d9bf59e12d82d06584/crossout%402x.png)Don’t
add a visual cue that draws people’s attention to the system alert’s Allow
buttons.

## [Location button](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Location-
button)

In iOS, iPadOS, and watchOS, Core Location provides a button so people can
grant your app temporary authorization to access their location at the moment
a task needs it. A location button’s appearance can vary to match your app’s
UI and it always communicates the action of location sharing in a way that’s
instantly recognizable.

![An image of a lozenge-shaped blue button that displays a white location
indicator — that is, a narrow arrow head shape that points to the top right —
followed by the text Current Location.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/2d4e44adec80170cec96d3446617e700/location-
button%402x.png)

The first time people open your app and tap a location button, the system
displays a standard alert. The alert helps people understand how using the
button limits your app’s access to their location, and reminds them of the
location indicator that appears when sharing starts.

![A screenshot of the alert displayed by the location button that appears on
top of a background image showing a partial map. The alert reads Allow Social
Media to access your location? Turning on location  will allow us to show you
nearby post locations. Below this text the alert displays a small image of the
map, zoomed in to show part of Cupertino. Below the map are three buttons;
from the top the titles are Allow Once, Allow While Using App, and Don't
Allow.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/5cff6abb7fc42b749c616ab763a09968/privacy-
social-media-map-location-alert%402x.png)

After people confirm their understanding of the button’s action, simply
tapping the location button gives your app one-time permission to access their
location. Although each one-time authorization expires when people stop using
your app, they don’t need to reconfirm their understanding of the button’s
behavior.

Note

If your app has no authorization status, tapping the location button has the
same effect as when a person chooses _Allow Once_ in the standard alert. If
people previously chose _While Using the App_ , tapping the location button
doesn’t change your app’s status. For developer guidance, see
[`LocationButton`](/documentation/CoreLocationUI/LocationButton) (SwiftUI) and
[`CLLocationButton`](/documentation/CoreLocationUI/CLLocationButton) (Swift).

**Consider using the location button to give people a lightweight way to share
their location for specific app features.** For example, your app might help
people attach their location to a message or post, find a store, or identify a
building, plant, or animal they’ve encountered in their location. If you know
that people often grant your app _Allow Once_ permission, consider using the
location button to help them benefit from sharing their location without
having to repeatedly interact with the alert.

**Consider customizing the location button to harmonize with your UI.**
Specifically, you can:

  * Choose the system-provided title that works best with your feature, such as “Current Location” or “Share My Current Location.”

  * Choose the filled or outlined location glyph.

  * Select a background color and a color for the title and glyph.

  * Adjust the button’s corner radius.

To help people recognize and trust location buttons, you can’t customize the
button’s other visual attributes. The system also ensures a location button
remains legible by warning you about problems like low-contrast color
combinations or too much translucency. In addition to fixing such problems,
you’re responsible for making sure the text fits in the button — for example,
button text needs to fit without truncation at all accessibility text sizes
and when translated into other languages.

Important

If the system identifies consistent problems with your customized location
button, it won’t give your app access to the device location when people tap
it. Although such a button can perform other app-specific actions, people may
lose trust in your app if your location button doesn’t work as they expect.

## [Protecting data](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Protecting-
data)

Protecting people’s information is paramount. Give people confidence in your
app’s security and help preserve their privacy by taking advantage of system-
provided security technologies when you need to store information locally,
authorize people for specific operations, and transport information across a
network.

Here are some high-level guidelines.

**Avoid relying solely on passwords for authentication.** Where possible, use
[passkeys](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/authenticationservices/public-
private_key_authentication/supporting_passkeys/) to replace passwords. If you
need to continue using passwords for authentication, augment security by
requiring two-factor authentication (for developer guidance, see [Securing
Logins with iCloud Keychain Verification
Codes](/documentation/AuthenticationServices/securing-logins-with-icloud-
keychain-verification-codes)). To further protect access to apps that people
keep logged in on their device, use biometric identification like Face ID,
Optic ID, or Touch ID. For developer guidance, see [Local
Authentication](/documentation/LocalAuthentication).

**Store sensitive information in a keychain.** A keychain provides a secure,
predictable user experience when handling someone’s private information. For
developer guidance, see [Keychain services](/documentation/Security/keychain-
services).

**Never store passwords or other secure content in plain-text files.** Even if
you restrict access using file permissions, sensitive information is much
safer in an encrypted keychain.

**Avoid inventing custom authentication schemes.** If your app requires
authentication, prefer system-provided features like
[passkeys](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/authenticationservices/public-
private_key_authentication/supporting_passkeys/), [Sign in with
Apple](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sign-in-with-apple) or [Password
AutoFill](/documentation/Security/password-autofill). For related guidance,
see [Managing accounts](/design/human-interface-guidelines/managing-accounts).

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/privacy#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS, iPadOS, tvOS, or watchOS._

### [macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#macOS)

**Sign your app with a valid Developer ID.** If you choose to distribute your
app outside the store, signing your app with Developer ID identifies you as an
Apple developer and confirms that your app is safe to use. For developer
guidance, see [Xcode Help](https://developer.apple.com/go/?id=ios-app-
distribution-guide).

**Protect people’s data with app sandboxing.** Sandboxing provides your app
with access to system resources and user data while protecting it from
malware. All apps submitted to the Mac App Store require sandboxing. For
developer guidance, see [Configuring the macOS App
Sandbox](/documentation/Xcode/configuring-the-macos-app-sandbox).

**Avoid making assumptions about who is signed in.** Because of fast user
switching, multiple people may be active on the same system.

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#visionOS)

By default, visionOS uses ARKit algorithms to handle features like
persistence, world mapping, segmentation, matting, and environment lighting.
These algorithms are always running, allowing apps and games to automatically
benefit from ARKit while in the Shared Space.

ARKit doesn’t send data to apps in the Shared Space; to access ARKit APIs,
your app must open a Full Space. Additionally, features like Plane Estimation,
Scene Reconstruction, Image Anchoring, and Hand Tracking require people’s
permission to access any information. For developer guidance, see [Setting up
access to ARKit data](/documentation/visionOS/setting-up-access-to-arkit-
data).

In visionOS, user input is private by design. The system automatically
displays hover effects when people look at interactive components you create
using SwiftUI or RealityKit, giving people the visual feedback they need
without exposing where they’re looking before they tap. For guidance, see
[Eyes](/design/human-interface-guidelines/eyes) and [Gestures >
visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#visionOS).

Developer access to device cameras works differently in visionOS than it does
in other platforms. Specifically, the back camera provides blank input and is
only available as a compatibility convenience; the front camera provides input
for [spatial Personas](/design/human-interface-guidelines/shareplay#visionOS),
but only after people grant their permission. If the iOS or iPadOS app you’re
bringing to visionOS includes a feature that needs camera access, remove it or
replace it with an option for people to import content instead. For developer
guidance, see [Making your existing app compatible with
visionOS](/documentation/visionOS/making-your-app-compatible-with-visionos).

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Related)

[Entering data](/design/human-interface-guidelines/entering-data)

[Onboarding](/design/human-interface-guidelines/onboarding)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/privacy#Developer-documentation)

[Requesting access to protected resources](/documentation/UIKit/requesting-
access-to-protected-resources) — UIKit

[Security](/documentation/Security)

[Requesting authorization to use location
services](/documentation/CoreLocation/requesting-authorization-to-use-
location-services) — CoreLocation

[App Tracking Transparency](/documentation/AppTrackingTransparency)

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/0A08BD06-2B59-45BA-
AA75-C9206946195D/9945_wide_250x141_1x.jpg) Integrate privacy into your
development process ](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/246)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/473C8E4A-1764-482D-BE24-B3A7BBDBD526/9996_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
What’s new in passkeys ](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/279)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/39DEAE04-CBAD-401A-973C-3916F2B9624A/9251_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
What’s new in privacy
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10123)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 21, 2023| Consolidated guidance into new page and updated for visionOS.

