# Accessibility

Accessible user interfaces empower everyone to have a great experience with
your app or game.

When you design for accessibility, you reach a larger audience and create a
more inclusive experience. An accessible interface allows people to experience
your app or game regardless of their capabilities or how they use their
devices. Accessibility makes information and interactions available to
everyone. An accessible interface is:

  * **Intuitive.** Your interface uses familiar and consistent interactions that make tasks straightforward to perform.

  * **Perceivable.** Your interface doesn’t rely on any single method to convey information. People can access and interact with your content, whether they use sight, hearing, speech, or touch.

  * **Adaptable.** Your interface adapts to how people want to use their device, whether by supporting system accessibility features or letting people personalize settings.

As you design your app, audit the accessibility of your interface. Use
[Accessibility Inspector](/documentation/Accessibility/accessibility-
inspector) to highlight accessibility issues with your interface and to
understand how your app represents itself to people using system accessibility
features. You can also communicate how accessible your app is on the App Store
using Accessibility Nutrition Labels. To learn more about how to evaluate and
indicate accessibility feature support, see [Accessibility Nutrition
Labels](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-
accessibility/overview-of-accessibility-nutrition-labels) in App Store Connect
help.

## [Vision](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Vision)

The people who use your interface may be blind, color blind, or have low
vision or light sensitivity. They may also be in situations where lighting
conditions and screen brightness affect their ability to interact with your
interface.

**Support larger text sizes.** Make sure people can adjust the size of your
text or icons to make them more legible, visible, and comfortable to read.
Ideally, give people the option to enlarge text by at least 200 percent (or
140 percent in watchOS apps). Your interface can support font size enlargement
either through custom UI, or by adopting Dynamic Type. Dynamic Type is a
systemwide setting that lets people adjust the size of text for comfort and
legibility. For more guidance, see [Supporting Dynamic Type](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/typography#Supporting-Dynamic-Type).

**Use recommended defaults for custom type sizes.** Each platform has
different default and minimum sizes for system-defined type styles to promote
readability. If you’re using custom type styles, follow the recommended
defaults.

Platform| Default size| Minimum size  
---|---|---  
iOS, iPadOS| 17 pt| 11 pt  
macOS| 13 pt| 10 pt  
tvOS| 29 pt| 23 pt  
visionOS| 17 pt| 12 pt  
watchOS| 16 pt| 12 pt  
  
**Bear in mind that font weight can also impact how easy text is to read.** If
you’re using a custom font with a thin weight, aim for larger than the
recommended sizes to increase legibility. For more guidance, see
[Typography](/design/human-interface-guidelines/typography).

Thicker weights are easier to read for smaller font sizes.

Consider increasing the font size when using a thin weight.

**Strive to meet color contrast minimum standards.** To ensure all information
in your app is legible, it’s important that there’s enough contrast between
foreground text and icons and background colors. Two popular standards of
measure for color contrast are the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
(WCAG)](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/) and the Accessible Perceptual Contrast
Algorithm (APCA). Use standard contrast calculators to ensure your UI meets
acceptable levels. [Accessibility
Inspector](/documentation/Accessibility/accessibility-inspector) uses the
following values from WCAG Level AA as guidance in determining whether your
app’s colors have an acceptable contrast.

Text size| Text weight| Minimum contrast ratio  
---|---|---  
Up to 17 pts| All| 4.5:1  
18 pts| All| 3:1  
All| Bold| 3:1  
  
If your app doesn’t provide this minimum contrast by default, ensure it at
least provides a higher contrast color scheme when the system setting Increase
Contrast is turned on. If your app supports [Dark Mode](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/dark-mode), make sure to check the minimum contrast in
both light and dark appearances.

A button with insufficient color contrast

A button with sufficient color contrast

**Prefer system-defined colors.** These colors have their own accessible
variants that automatically adapt when people adjust their color preferences,
such as enabling Increase Contrast or toggling between the light and dark
appearances. For guidance, see [Color](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/color).

The `systemRed` default color in iOS

The `systemRed` accessible color in iOS

**Convey information with more than color alone.** Some people have trouble
differentiating between certain colors and shades. For example, people who are
color blind may have particular difficulty with pairings such as red-green and
blue-orange. Offer visual indicators, like distinct shapes or icons, in
addition to color to help people perceive differences in function and changes
in state. Consider allowing people to customize color schemes such as chart
colors or game characters so they can personalize your interface in a way
that’s comfortable for them.

For someone with red-green color blindness, these indicators might appear the
same.

Both visual indicators and color help differentiate between indicators.

**Describe your app’s interface and content for VoiceOver.** VoiceOver is a
screen reader that lets people experience your app’s interface without needing
to see the screen. For more guidance, see [VoiceOver](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/voiceover).

## [Hearing](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Hearing)

The people who use your interface may be deaf or hard of hearing. They may
also be in noisy or public environments.

**Support text-based ways to enjoy audio and video.** It’s important that
dialogue and crucial information about your app or game isn’t communicated
through audio alone. Depending on the context, give people different text-
based ways to experience their media, and allow people to customize the visual
presentation of that text:

  * **Captions** give people the textual equivalent of audible information in video or audio-only content. Captions are great for scenarios like game cutscenes and video clips where text synchronizes live with the media.

  * **Subtitles** allow people to read live onscreen dialogue in their preferred language. Subtitles are great for TV shows and movies.

  * **Audio descriptions** are interspersed between natural pauses in the main audio of a video and supply spoken narration of important information that’s presented only visually.

  * **Transcripts** provide a complete textual description of a video, covering both audible and visual information. Transcripts are great for longer-form media like podcasts and audiobooks where people may want to review content as a whole or highlight the transcript as media is playing.

For developer guidance, see [Selecting Subtitles and Alternative Audio
Tracks](/documentation/AVFoundation/selecting-subtitles-and-alternative-audio-
tracks).

**Use haptics in addition to audio cues.** If your interface conveys
information through audio cues — such as a success chime, error sound, or game
feedback — consider pairing that sound with matching haptics for people who
can’t perceive the audio or have their audio turned off. In iOS and iPadOS,
you can also use [Music Haptics](/documentation/MediaAccessibility/music-
haptics) and [Audio graphs](/documentation/Accessibility/audio-graphs) to let
people experience music and infographics through vibration and texture. For
guidance, see [Playing haptics](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-
haptics).

![An illustration of an iPhone device vibrating as music plays from the
device.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/1bf9d6ae5c3586a5163ce6abf0cabb95/accessibility-
haptic-audio-combo%402x.png)

**Augment audio cues with visual cues.** This is especially important for
games and spatial apps where important content might be taking place off
screen. When using audio to guide people towards a specific action, also add
in visual indicators that point to where you want people to interact.

## [Mobility](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Mobility)

![An illustration containing five symbols associated with the topic of
mobility, including symbols representing the keyboard, movement, and
touch.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/f8e9d74dc994111ba0ee7fa436fc2fc1/accessibility-
mobility-section-hero%402x.png)

Ensure your interface offers a comfortable experience for people with limited
dexterity or mobility.

**Offer sufficiently sized controls.** Controls that are too small are hard
for many people to interact with and select. Strive to meet the recommended
minimum control size for each platform to ensure controls and menus are
comfortable for all when tapping and clicking.

Platform| Default control size| Minimum control size  
---|---|---  
iOS, iPadOS| 44x44 pt| 28x28 pt  
macOS| 28x28 pt| 20x20 pt  
tvOS| 66x66 pt| 56x56 pt  
visionOS| 60x60 pt| 28x28 pt  
watchOS| 44x44 pt| 28x28 pt  
  
**Consider spacing between controls as important as size.** Include enough
padding between elements to reduce the chance that someone taps the wrong
control. In general, it works well to add about 12 points of padding around
elements that include a bezel. For elements without a bezel, about 24 points
of padding works well around the element’s visible edges.

![An illustration showing three buttons: rewind, play, and fast forward. The
buttons have insufficient padding between them.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/4148fe218b3f50b66d64eeda288de5be/accessibility-
controls-spacing-incorrect%402x.png)Elements with insufficient padding

![An X in a circle to indicate incorrect usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/209f6f0fc8ad99d9bf59e12d82d06584/crossout%402x.png)

![An illustration showing three buttons: rewind, play, and fast forward. The
buttons are spaced apart, with sufficient padding between them.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/98bc500a0a2cf15620b972de1fcce3b3/accessibility-
controls-spacing-correct%402x.png)Elements with sufficient padding

![A checkmark in a circle to indicate correct usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/88662da92338267bb64cd2275c84e484/checkmark%402x.png)

**Support simple gestures for common interactions.** For many people, with or
without disabilities, complex gestures can be challenging. For interactions
people do frequently in your app or game, use the simplest gesture possible —
avoid custom multifinger and multihand gestures — so repetitive actions are
both comfortable and easy to remember.

**Offer alternatives to gestures.** Make sure your UI’s core functionality is
accessible through more than one type of physical interaction. Gestures can be
less comfortable for people who have limited dexterity, so offer onscreen ways
to achieve the same outcome. For example, if you use a swipe gesture to
dismiss a view, also make a button available so people can tap or use an
assistive device.

![An illustration of a table view in edit mode. The rows of the table include
delete buttons.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/fa893cee3fa5c70e99dfefa85c0c390a/accessibility-
tap-to-delete%402x.png)Edit and tap to delete

![An illustration of a table view. One of the rows in the table is swiped to
the left to reveal a delete button.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/f6eb08c3c3a75f5b1b337b4813b4e95e/accessibility-
swipe-to-delete%402x.png)Swipe to delete

**Let people use Voice Control to give guidance and enter information
verbally.** With Voice Control, people can interact with their devices
entirely by speaking commands. They can perform gestures, interact with screen
elements, dictate and edit text, and more. To ensure a smooth experience,
label interface elements appropriately. For developer guidance, see [Voice
Control](/documentation/Accessibility/voice-control).

**Integrate with Siri and Shortcuts to let people perform tasks using voice
alone.** When your app supports Siri and Shortcuts, people can automate the
important and repetitive tasks they perform regularly. They can initiate these
tasks from Siri, the Action button on their iPhone or Apple Watch, and
shortcuts on their Home Screen or in Control Center. For guidance, see
[Siri](/design/human-interface-guidelines/siri).

**Support mobility-related assistive technologies.** Features like
[VoiceOver](/design/human-interface-guidelines/voiceover), AssistiveTouch,
Full Keyboard Access, Pointer Control, and [Switch
Control](/documentation/Accessibility/switch-control) offer alternative ways
for people with low mobility to interact with their devices. Conduct testing
and verify that your app or game supports these technologies, and that your
interface elements are appropriately labeled to ensure a great experience. For
more information, see [Performing accessibility testing for your
app](/documentation/Accessibility/performing-accessibility-testing-for-your-
app).

## [Speech](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Speech)

![An illustration containing five symbols associated with the topic of speech,
including symbols representing waveforms and speech.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/62f06a887d774ec29a27ce2be6d30444/accessibility-
speech-section-hero%402x.png)

Apple’s accessibility features help people with speech disabilities and people
who prefer text-based interactions to communicate effectively using their
devices.

**Let people use the keyboard alone to navigate and interact with your app.**
People can turn on Full Keyboard Access to navigate apps using their physical
keyboard. The system also defines accessibility keyboard shortcuts and a wide
range of other [keyboard shortcuts](https://support.apple.com/en-us/102650)
that many people use all the time. Avoid overriding system-defined keyboard
shortcuts and evaluate your app to ensure it works well with Full Keyboard
Access. For additional guidance, see [Keyboards](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/keyboards). For developer guidance, see [Support Full Keyboard
Access in your iOS
app](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2021/10120).

**Support Switch Control.** Switch Control is an assistive technology that
lets people control their devices through separate hardware, game controllers,
or sounds such as a click or a pop. People can perform actions like selecting,
tapping, typing, and drawing when your app or game supports the ability to
navigate using Switch Control. For developer guidance, see [Switch
Control](/documentation/Accessibility/switch-control).

## [Cognitive](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Cognitive)

![An illustration containing five symbols associated with the topic of
cognition, including symbols representing music, security, and information
hierarchy.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/0d837305d3c06f6ba0199cf2764df3fd/accessibility-
cognitive-section-hero%402x.png)

When you minimize complexity in your app or game, all people benefit.

**Keep actions simple and intuitive.** Ensure that people can navigate your
interface using easy-to-remember and consistent interactions. Prefer system
gestures and behaviors people are already familiar with over creating custom
gestures people must learn and retain.

**Minimize use of time-boxed interface elements.** Views and controls that
auto-dismiss on a timer can be problematic for people who need longer to
process information, and for people who use assistive technologies that
require more time to traverse the interface. Prefer dismissing views with an
explicit action.

**Consider offering difficulty accommodations in games.** Everyone has their
own way of playing and enjoying games. To support a variety of cognitive
abilities, consider adding the ability to customize the difficulty level of
your game, such as offering options for people to reduce the criteria for
successfully completing a level, adjust reaction time, or enable control
assistance.

**Let people control audio and video playback.** Avoid autoplaying audio and
video content without also providing controls to start and stop it. Make sure
these controls are discoverable and easy to act upon, and consider global
settings that let people opt out of auto-playing all audio and video. For
developer guidance, see [Animated
images](/documentation/Accessibility/animated-images) and
[`isVideoAutoplayEnabled`](/documentation/UIKit/UIAccessibility/isVideoAutoplayEnabled).

**Allow people to opt out of flashing lights in video playback.** People might
want to avoid bright, frequent flashes of light in the media they consume. A
Dim Flashing Lights setting allows the system to calculate, mitigate, and
inform people about flashing lights in a piece of media. If your app supports
video playback, ensure that it responds appropriately to the Dim Flashing
Lights setting. For developer guidance, see [Flashing
lights](/documentation/MediaAccessibility/flashing-lights).

**Be cautious with fast-moving and blinking animations.** When you use these
effects in excess, it can be distracting, cause dizziness, and in some cases
even result in epileptic episodes. People who are prone to these effects can
turn on the Reduce Motion accessibility setting. When this setting is active,
ensure your app or game responds by reducing automatic and repetitive
animations, including zooming, scaling, and peripheral motion. Other best
practices for reducing motion include:

  * Tightening animation springs to reduce bounce effects

  * Tracking animations directly with people’s gestures

  * Avoiding animating depth changes in z-axis layers

  * Replacing transitions in x-, y-, and z-axes with fades to avoid motion

  * Avoiding animating into and out of blurs

**Optimize your app’s UI for Assistive Access.** Assistive Access is an
accessibility feature in iOS and iPadOS that allows people with cognitive
disabilities to use a streamlined version of your app. Assistive Access sets a
default layout and control presentation for apps that reduces cognitive load,
such as the following layout of the Camera app.

![A screenshot of the Camera app in Assistive Access, showing an interface
with three large buttons: Photo, Video, and Back.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/186637e83d4ec29d3d20a8249be8a538/accessibility-
assistive-access-camera%402x.png)

![A screenshot of the Camera app open to the photo screen in Assistive Access,
showing an interface with two large buttons: Take Photo and
Back.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/c2abc07058fc2e64295271c85c5d66eb/accessibility-
assistive-access-camera-photo-mode%402x.png)

To optimize your app for this mode, use the following guidelines when
Assistive Access is turned on:

  * Identify the core functionality of your app and consider removing noncritical workflows and UI elements.

  * Break up multistep workflows so people can focus on a single interaction per screen.

  * Always ask for confirmation twice whenever people perform an action that’s difficult to recover from, such a deleting a file.

For developer guidance, see [Assistive
Access](/documentation/Accessibility/assistive-access).

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/accessibility#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, or watchOS._

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#visionOS)

visionOS offers a variety of accessibility features people can use to interact
with their surroundings in ways that are comfortable and work best for them,
including head and hand Pointer Control, and a Zoom feature.

  * Pointer Control (hand) 
  * Pointer Control (head) 
  * Zoom 

Video with custom controls.

Content description: A recording of a person's hand using Pointer Control to
interact with content in an app's visionOS window. A line with a pointer at
the end extends from the person's hand. It changes position within the field
of view as the person moves their hand.

Play

Video with custom controls.

Content description: A recording of someone using Pointer Control to interact
with content in an app's visionOS window. The person isn't visible in the
recording. Only the pointer is visible. It's centered in the field of view,
and the person uses their head movement to position content beneath the
pointer.

Play

![A screenshot of an app's window in visionOS. A zoom lens is visible above a
portion of the window, and displays a zoomed-in version of the content beneath
the lens.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/087dd22d68c54c95cd70008020f6dc1e/visionos-
accessibility-zoom-lens%402x.png)

**Prioritize comfort.** The immersive nature of visionOS means that
interfaces, animations, and interactions have a greater chance of causing
motion sickness, and visual and ergonomic discomfort for people. To ensure the
most comfortable experience, consider these tips:

  * Keep interface elements within a person’s field of view. Prefer horizontal layouts to vertical ones that might cause neck strain, and avoid demanding the viewer’s attention in different locations in quick succession.

  * Reduce the speed and intensity of animated objects, particularly in someone’s peripheral vision.

  * Be gentle with camera and video motion, and avoid situations where someone may feel like the world around them is moving without their control.

  * Avoid anchoring content to the wearer’s head, which may make them feel stuck and confined, and also prevent them from using assistive technologies like Pointer Control.

  * Minimize the need for large and repetitive gestures, as these can become tiresome and may be difficult depending on a person’s surroundings.

For additional guidance, see [Create accessible spatial
experiences](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10034) and
[Design considerations for vision and
motion](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10078).

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Related)

[Inclusion](/design/human-interface-guidelines/inclusion)

[Typography](/design/human-interface-guidelines/typography)

[VoiceOver](/design/human-interface-guidelines/voiceover)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/accessibility#Developer-documentation)

[Building accessible apps](https://developer.apple.com/accessibility/)

[Accessibility framework](/documentation/Accessibility)

[Overview of Accessibility Nutrition
Labels](https://devcms.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-
accessibility/overview-of-accessibility-nutrition-labels)

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/F5AEB5B6-FF48-4201-B110-A0EDA465F3B4/9961_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Principles of inclusive app design
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/316)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/163752B6-501D-4816-BA92-DBF33CCF0CD2/9917_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Evaluate your app for Accessibility Nutrition Labels
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/224)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/52E9AD54-DB4B-4BB0-93D9-7625A2A46A74/9166_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Catch up on accessibility in SwiftUI
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10073)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 9, 2025| Added guidance and links for Assistive Access, Switch Control,
and Accessibility Nutrition Labels.  
March 7, 2025| Expanded and refined all guidance. Moved Dynamic Type guidance
to the Typography page, and moved VoiceOver guidance to a new VoiceOver page.  
June 10, 2024| Added a link to Apple’s Unity plug-ins for supporting Dynamic
Type.  
December 5, 2023| Updated visionOS Zoom lens artwork.  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.

