# AirPlay

AirPlay lets people stream media content wirelessly from iOS, iPadOS, macOS,
and tvOS devices to Apple TV, HomePod, and TVs and speakers that support
AirPlay.

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/airplay#Best-practices)

**Prefer the system-provided media player.** The built-in media player offers
a standard set of controls and supports features like chapter navigation,
subtitles, closed captioning, and AirPlay streaming. It’s also easy to
implement, provides a consistent and familiar playback experience across the
system, and accommodates the needs of most media apps. Consider designing a
custom video player only if the system-provided player doesn’t meet your app’s
needs. For developer guidance, see
[`AVPlayerViewController`](/documentation/AVKit/AVPlayerViewController).

**Provide content in the highest possible resolution.** Your [HTTP Live
Streaming](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/http-live-streaming)
(HLS) playlist needs to include the full range of available resolutions so
that people can experience your content in the resolution that’s appropriate
for the device they’re using (AVFoundation automatically selects the
resolution based on the device). If you don’t include a range of resolutions,
your content looks low quality when people stream it to a device that can play
at higher resolutions. For example, content that looks great on iPhone at 720p
will look low quality when people use AirPlay to stream it to a 4K TV.

**Stream only the content people expect.** Avoid streaming content like
background loops and short video experiences that make sense only within the
context of the app itself. For developer guidance, see
[`usesExternalPlaybackWhileExternalScreenIsActive`](/documentation/AVFoundation/AVPlayer/usesExternalPlaybackWhileExternalScreenIsActive).

**Support both AirPlay streaming and mirroring.** Supporting both features
gives people the most flexibility.

**Support remote control events.** When you do, people can choose actions like
play, pause, and fast forward on the lock screen, and through interaction with
Siri or HomePod. For developer guidance, see [Remote command center
events](/documentation/MediaPlayer/remote-command-center-events).

**Don’t stop playback when your app enters the background or when the device
locks.** For example, people expect the TV show they started streaming from
your app to continue while they check their mail or put their device to sleep.
In this type of scenario, it’s also crucial to avoid automatic mirroring
because people don’t want to stream other content on their device without
explicitly choosing to do so.

**Don’t interrupt another app’s playback unless your app is starting to play
immersive content.** For example, if your app plays a video when it launches
or auto-plays inline videos, play this content on only the local device, while
allowing current playback to continue. For developer guidance, see
[`ambient`](/documentation/AVFAudio/AVAudioSession/Category-
swift.struct/ambient).

**Let people use other parts of your app during playback.** When AirPlay is
active, your app needs to remain functional. If people navigate away from the
playback screen, make sure other in-app videos don’t begin playing and
interrupt the streaming content.

**If necessary, provide a custom interface for controlling media playback.**
If you can’t use the system-provided media player, you can create a custom
media player that gives people an intuitive way to enter AirPlay. If you need
to do this, be sure to provide custom buttons that match the appearance and
behavior of the system-provided ones, including distinct visual states that
indicate when playback starts, is occurring, or is unavailable. Use only
Apple-provided symbols in custom controls that initiate AirPlay, and position
the AirPlay icon correctly in your custom player — that is, in the lower-right
corner (in iOS 16 and iPadOS 16 and later).

## [Using AirPlay icons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/airplay#Using-
AirPlay-icons)

You can download AirPlay icons in
[Resources](https://developer.apple.com/design/resources/). You have the
following options for displaying the AirPlay icon in your app.

### [Black AirPlay icon](/design/human-interface-guidelines/airplay#Black-
AirPlay-icon)

Use the black AirPlay icon on white or light backgrounds when other technology
icons also appear in black.

### [White AirPlay icon](/design/human-interface-guidelines/airplay#White-
AirPlay-icon)

Use the white AirPlay icon on black or dark backgrounds when other technology
icons also appear in white.

### [Custom color AirPlay icon](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/airplay#Custom-color-AirPlay-icon)

Use a custom color when other technology icons also appear in the same color.

**Position the AirPlay icon consistently with other technology icons.** If you
display other technology icons within shapes, you can display the AirPlay icon
in the same manner.

**Don’t use the AirPlay icon or name in custom buttons or interactive
elements.** Use the icon and the name _AirPlay_ only in noninteractive ways.

**Pair the icon with the name _AirPlay_ correctly.** You can show the name
below or beside the icon if you also reference other technologies in this way.
Use the same font you use in the rest of your layout. Avoid using the AirPlay
icon within text or as a replacement for the name _AirPlay_.

**Emphasize your app over AirPlay.** Make references to AirPlay less prominent
than your app name or main identity.

## [Referring to AirPlay](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/airplay#Referring-to-AirPlay)

**Use correct capitalization when using the term _AirPlay_.** _AirPlay_ is one
word, with an uppercase _A_ and uppercase _P_ , each followed by lowercase
letters. If your layout displays only all-uppercase designations, you can
typeset _AirPlay_ in all uppercase to match the style of the rest of the
layout.

**Always use _AirPlay_ as a noun.**

| Example text  
---|---  
| Use AirPlay to listen on your speaker  
| AirPlay to your speaker  
| You can AirPlay with [App Name]  
  
**Use terms like _works with_ , _use_ , _supports_ , and _compatible_.**

| Example text  
---|---  
![A checkmark in a circle to indicate correct usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/88662da92338267bb64cd2275c84e484/checkmark%402x.png)|
[App Name] is compatible with AirPlay  
![A checkmark in a circle to indicate correct usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/88662da92338267bb64cd2275c84e484/checkmark%402x.png)|
AirPlay-enabled speaker  
![A checkmark in a circle to indicate correct usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/88662da92338267bb64cd2275c84e484/checkmark%402x.png)|
You can use AirPlay with [App Name]  
![An X in a circle to indicate incorrect usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/209f6f0fc8ad99d9bf59e12d82d06584/crossout%402x.png)|
[App Name] has AirPlay  
  
**Use the name _Apple_ with the name _AirPlay_ if desired.**

| Example text  
---|---  
![A checkmark in a circle to indicate correct usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/88662da92338267bb64cd2275c84e484/checkmark%402x.png)|
Compatible with Apple AirPlay  
  
**Refer to AirPlay if appropriate and to add clarity.** If your content is
specific to AirPlay, you can use Airplay to make that clear. You can also
refer to AirPlay in technical specifications.

| Example text  
---|---  
![A checkmark in a circle to indicate correct usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/88662da92338267bb64cd2275c84e484/checkmark%402x.png)|
[App Name] now supports AirPlay  
  
## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/airplay#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, or visionOS. Not
supported in watchOS._

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/airplay#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/airplay#Related)

[Apple Design Resources](https://developer.apple.com/design/resources/)

[Apple Trademark List](https://www.apple.com/legal/intellectual-
property/trademark/appletmlist.html)

[Guidelines for Using Apple Trademarks and
Copyrights](https://www.apple.com/legal/intellectual-
property/guidelinesfor3rdparties.html)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/airplay#Developer-documentation)

[AVFoundation](/documentation/AVFoundation)

[AVKit](/documentation/AVKit)

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/airplay#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/48/8FCAD355-E1A3-4407-9261-95A3D6026DE8/2661_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Reaching the Big Screen with AirPlay 2
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2019/501)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/airplay#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
May 2, 2023| Consolidated guidance into one page.

