# Apple Pencil and Scribble

Apple Pencil helps make drawing, handwriting, and marking effortless and
natural, in addition to performing well as a pointer and UI interaction tool.

Apple Pencil is a versatile, intuitive tool for iPad apps that offers
pixel‑level precision when jotting notes, sketching, painting, marking up
documents, and more. Scribble lets people use Apple Pencil to enter text in
any text field through fast, private, on-device handwriting recognition.

For details on Apple Pencil features and compatibility, see [Apple
Pencil](https://www.apple.com/apple-pencil/).

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Best-practices)

**Support behaviors people intuitively expect when using a marking
instrument.** Most people have a lot of experience with real-world marking
tools, and this knowledge informs their expectations when they use Apple
Pencil with your app. To provide a delightful experience, think about the ways
people interact with nondigital pencils, pens, and other marking instruments,
and proactively support actions that people may naturally attempt. For
example, people often want to write in the margins of documents or books.

**Let people choose when to switch between Apple Pencil and finger input.**
For example, if your app supports Apple Pencil for marking, also ensure that
your app’s controls respond to Apple Pencil so people don’t have to switch to
using their finger to activate them. In this scenario, a control that doesn’t
support Apple Pencil input might seem to be unresponsive, giving the
impression of a malfunction or low battery. (Scribble only supports Apple
Pencil input.)

**Let people make a mark the moment Apple Pencil touches the screen**. You
want the experience of putting Apple Pencil to screen to mirror the experience
of putting a classic pencil to paper, so it’s essential to avoid requiring
people to tap a button or enter a special mode before they can make a mark.

**Help people express themselves by responding to the way they use Apple
Pencil.** Apple Pencil may sense tilt (altitude), force (pressure),
orientation (azimuth), and [barrel roll](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/apple-pencil-and-scribble#Barrel-roll). Use this information to
affect the strokes Apple Pencil makes, such as by varying thickness and
intensity. When responding to pressure, keep things simple and intuitive. For
example, it feels natural to affect continuous properties — such as ink
opacity or brush size — by varying the pressure.

Altitude

Pressure

Azimuth

**Provide visual feedback to indicate a direct connection with content.** Make
sure Apple Pencil appears to directly and immediately manipulate content it
touches onscreen. Avoid letting Apple Pencil appear to initiate seemingly
disconnected actions, or affect content on other parts of the screen.

**Design a great left- and right-handed experience.** Avoid placing controls
in locations that may be obscured by either hand. If there’s a chance controls
may become obscured, consider letting people reposition them.

## [Hover](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-scribble#Hover)

**Use hover to help people predict what will happen when Apple Pencil touches
the screen.** For example, as people hold Apple Pencil above the screen, a
hover preview can show the dimensions and color of the mark that the current
tool can make. As much as possible, avoid continuously modifying the preview
as people move Apple Pencil closer or farther from the screen. A preview that
changes according to height is unlikely to clarify the mark Apple Pencil will
make, and frequent visual variations can be very distracting to people.

**Avoid using hover to initiate an action.** Unlike tapping a button or
marking the screen, hovering is a relatively imprecise motion that doesn’t
require people to think about the actual distance between Apple Pencil and the
display. You don’t want people to inadvertently perform an action — especially
a destructive action that they might want to undo — just because they hold
Apple Pencil near the screen.

**Prefer showing a preview value that’s near the middle in a range of dynamic
values.** Dynamic properties like opacity or flow can be difficult to depict
at the highest or lowest ends of the spectrum. For example, previewing the
appearance of a brush mark made with the maximum pressure could occlude the
area in which people are marking; in contrast, depicting a mark made with the
minimum pressure could be hard for people to detect, making the preview an
inaccurate representation of an actual mark or even invisible.

**Consider using hover to support relevant interactions close to where people
are marking.** For example, you might respond to hover by displaying a
contextual menu of tool sizes when people perform a gesture like
[squeeze](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Squeeze) or press a modifier key on an attached keyboard. Revealing a
menu near where people are marking lets them make choices without moving Apple
Pencil or their hands to another part of the screen.

**Prefer showing hover previews for Apple Pencil, not for a pointing device.**
Although a pointing device can also respond to hover gestures, it might be
confusing to provide the same visual feedback for both devices. If it makes
sense in your app, you can restrict your hover preview to Apple Pencil only.
For developer guidance, see [Adopting hover support for Apple
Pencil](/documentation/UIKit/adopting-hover-support-for-apple-pencil).

## [Double tap](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Double-tap)

**Respect people’s settings for the double-tap gesture when they make sense in
your app.** By default, models of Apple Pencil that support the double-tap
gesture respond by toggling between the current tool and the eraser, but
people can set the gesture to toggle between the current and previous tool,
show and hide the color picker, or do nothing at all. If your app supports
these behaviors, let people use their preferred gestures to perform them. If
the systemwide double-tap settings don’t make sense in your app, you can still
use the gesture to change the interaction mode. For example, a 3D app that
offers a mesh-editing tool could use double tap to toggle between the tool’s
raise and lower modes.

**Give people a way to specify custom double-tap behavior if necessary.** If
you offer custom double-tap behavior in addition to some or all of the default
behaviors, provide a control that lets people choose the custom behavior mode.
People need to know which mode they’re in; otherwise, they may get confused
when your app responds differently to their interactions. In this scenario,
make sure it’s easy for people to discover the custom behavior your app
supports, but don’t turn it on by default.

**Avoid using the double-tap gesture to perform an action that modifies
content.** In rare cases, it’s possible for people to double-tap accidentally,
which means that they may not even be aware that your app has performed the
action. Prefer using double tap to perform actions that are easy for people to
undo. In particular, avoid using double tap to perform a potentially
destructive action that might result in data loss.

## [Squeeze](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Squeeze)

Using Apple Pencil Pro, people can squeeze to perform an action. You can
design a custom behavior that responds to squeeze, but recognize that people
may choose to configure the squeeze gesture to run an [App
Shortcut](/design/human-interface-guidelines/app-shortcuts) instead of app-
specific actions.

Note

The squeeze gesture is available only when the paired iPad screen is on and
while the Apple Pencil Pro is not directly contacting it. Because squeeze
works when there’s distance between Apple Pencil Pro and iPad, people might
not always be visually aware of the gesture’s onscreen result.

**Treat squeeze as a single, quick gesture that performs a discrete — not
continuous — action.** People sometimes squeeze with a lot of force, so
holding a squeeze or squeezing several times quickly can be tiring. Help
people remain comfortable by responding to a single squeeze and promptly
displaying the result.

**If you use squeeze to reveal app UI, like a contextual menu, display it
close to Apple Pencil Pro.** Displaying the result of a squeeze near the tip
of Apple Pencil Pro strengthens the connection between the device and the
gesture, and can help people stay engaged with their task.

**Define squeeze actions that are nondestructive and easy to undo.** As with
the double-tap gesture, people can make the squeeze gesture without meaning
to, so it’s essential to avoid using squeeze to perform an action that could
result in data loss.

## [Barrel roll](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Barrel-roll)

While marking with Apple Pencil Pro, people can use a barrel-roll gesture to
change the type of mark they’re making. For example, while using Apple Pencil
Pro to highlight content in Notes, people can barrel-roll to rotate the angle
of the mark.

**Use barrel roll only to modify marking behavior, not to enable navigation or
display other controls.** In contrast to double tap and squeeze, barrel roll
is naturally related to marking and doesn’t make sense for performing an
interface action.

## [Scribble](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Scribble)

With Scribble and Apple Pencil, people can simply write wherever text is
accepted in your app — they don’t have to tap or switch modes first. Because
Scribble is fully integrated into iPadOS, it’s available to all apps by
default.

**Make text entry feel fluid and effortless.** By default, Scribble works in
all standard text components — such as text fields, text views, search fields,
and editable fields in web content — except password fields. If you use a
custom text field in your app, avoid making people tap or select it before
they can begin writing.

**Make Scribble available everywhere people might want to enter text.** Unlike
using the keyboard, using Apple Pencil encourages people to treat the screen
the way they treat a sheet of paper. Help strengthen this perception in your
app by making Scribble consistently available in places where text entry seems
natural. For example, in Reminders, it’s natural for people to create a new
reminder by writing it in the blank space below the last item, even though the
area doesn’t contain a text field. For developer guidance, see
[`UIIndirectScribbleInteraction`](/documentation/UIKit/UIIndirectScribbleInteraction-1nfjm).

**Avoid distracting people while they write.** Some text field behaviors work
well for keyboard input, but can disrupt the natural writing experience that
Apple Pencil provides. For example, it’s best to avoid displaying
autocompletion text as people write in a text field because the suggestions
can visually interfere with their writing. It’s also a good idea to hide a
field’s placeholder text the moment people begin to write so that their input
doesn’t appear to overlap it.

**While people are writing in a text field, make sure it remains stationary.**
In some cases, it can make sense to move a text field when it becomes focused:
for example, a search field might move to make more room to display results.
Such a movement is fine when people are using the keyboard, but when they’re
writing it can make them feel like they’ve lost control of where their input
is going. If you can’t prevent a text field from moving or resizing, consider
delaying the change until people pause their writing.

**Prevent autoscrolling text while people are writing and editing in a text
field.** When transcribed text autoscrolls, people might try to avoid writing
on top of it. Worse, if text scrolls while people are using Apple Pencil to
select it, they might select a different range of text than they want.

**Give people enough space to write.** A small text field can feel
uncomfortable to write in. When you know that Apple Pencil input is likely,
improve the writing experience in your app by increasing the size of the text
field before people begin to write in it or when they pause writing; avoid
resizing a text field while people are writing. For developer guidance, see
[`UIScribbleInteraction`](/documentation/UIKit/UIScribbleInteraction).

![An illustration showing a stack of two text fields, where the top field is
about half the width of the bottom field. Both text fields contain the word
Name in the leading end, followed by a person's signature. The top text field
is too narrow to fit all of the signature and is marked with an X in a circle
to indicate incorrect usage. The bottom text field is wide enough to fit the
full signature and is marked with a checkmark in a circle to indicate correct
usage.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/0e2cd3f5562569097b9f668253dac0f7/apple-
pencil-scribble%402x.png)

## [Custom drawing](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Custom-drawing)

Using [PencilKit](/documentation/PencilKit), you can let people take notes,
annotate documents and images, and draw with the same low-latency experience
that iOS provides. PencilKit also makes it easy to create a custom drawing
canvas in your app and offer a state-of-the-art tool picker and ink palette.

**Help people draw on top of existing content.** By default, the colors on
your PencilKit canvas dynamically adjust to Dark Mode, so people can create
content in either mode and the results will look great in both. However, when
people draw on top of existing content like a PDF or a photo, you want to
prevent the dynamic adjustment of colors so that the markup remains sharp and
visible.

**Consider displaying custom undo and redo buttons when your app runs in a
compact environment.** In a regular environment, the tool picker includes undo
and redo buttons, but in a compact environment it doesn’t. In a compact
environment, you could display undo and redo buttons in a toolbar. You might
also consider supporting the standard 3-finger undo/redo gesture, so people
can use it in any environment. For guidance, see [Undo and
redo](/design/human-interface-guidelines/undo-and-redo).

![An illustration of an iPad screen in landscape on the left and an iPhone
screen in portrait on the right. Both screens show the tool picker at the
bottom edge of the screen. The iPad screen shows the standard undo and redo
buttons in the left end of the tool picker, and the iPhone screen shows the
undo button in the top toolbar.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/7587fbeb4272d990e295d093f79e1ef8/apple-
pencil-undo-redo-buttons%402x.png)

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-
and-scribble#Platform-considerations)

 _Not supported in iOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS, or watchOS._

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Related)

[Entering data](/design/human-interface-guidelines/entering-data)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-
pencil-and-scribble#Developer-documentation)

[PencilKit](/documentation/PencilKit)

[PaperKit](/documentation/PaperKit)

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/BE1C66C1-9D8C-4EF7-BE9A-A36251A00B86/10006_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Meet PaperKit ](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/285)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/2104DC8F-01CE-453F-AF0E-A499CB193E97/9354_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Squeeze the most out of Apple Pencil
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10214)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-
scribble#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
May 7, 2024| Added guidance for handling squeeze and barrel roll on Apple
Pencil Pro.  
September 12, 2023| Updated artwork.  
November 3, 2022| Added guidelines for using hover to enhance your app.

