# Buttons

A button initiates an instantaneous action.

Versatile and highly customizable, buttons give people simple, familiar ways
to do tasks in your app. In general, a button combines three attributes to
clearly communicate its function:

  * **Style.** A visual style based on size, color, and shape.

  * **Content.** A symbol (or icon), text label, or both that a button displays to convey its purpose.

  * **Role.** A system-defined role that identifies a button’s semantic meaning and can affect its appearance.

There are also many button-like components that have distinct appearances and
behaviors for specific use cases, like [toggles](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/toggles), [pop-up buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/pop-
up-buttons), and [segmented controls](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/segmented-controls).

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Best-practices)

When buttons are instantly recognizable and easy to understand, an app tends
to feel intuitive and well designed.

**Make buttons easy for people to use.** It’s essential to include enough
space around a button so that people can visually distinguish it from
surrounding components and content. Giving a button enough space is also
critical for helping people select or activate it, regardless of the method of
input they use. As a general rule, a button needs a hit region of at least
44x44 pt — in visionOS, 60x60 pt — to ensure that people can select it easily,
whether they use a fingertip, a pointer, their eyes, or a remote.

**Always include a press state for a custom button.** Without a press state, a
button can feel unresponsive, making people wonder if it’s accepting their
input.

## [Style](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Style)

System buttons offer a range of styles that support customization while
providing built-in interaction states, accessibility support, and appearance
adaptation. Different platforms define different styles that help you
communicate hierarchies of actions in your app.

**In general, use a button that has a prominent visual style for the most
likely action in a view.** To draw people’s attention to a specific button,
use a prominent button style so the system can apply an accent color to the
button’s background. Buttons that use color tend to be the most visually
distinctive, helping people quickly identify the actions they’re most likely
to use. Keep the number of prominent buttons to one or two per view.
Presenting too many prominent buttons increases cognitive load, requiring
people to spend more time considering options before making a choice.

**Use style — not size — to visually distinguish the preferred choice among
multiple options.** When you use buttons of the same size to offer two or more
options, you signal that the options form a coherent set of choices. By
contrast, placing two buttons of different sizes near each other can make the
interface look confusing and inconsistent. If you want to highlight the
preferred or most likely option in a set, use a more prominent button style
for that option and a less prominent style for the remaining ones.

## [Content](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Content)

**Ensure that each button clearly communicates its purpose.** Depending on the
platform, a button can contain a symbol (or icon), a text label, or both to
help people understand what it does.

Note

In macOS and visionOS, the system displays a tooltip after people hover over a
button for a moment. A tooltip displays a brief phrase that explains what a
button does; for guidance, see [Offering help](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/offering-help).

**Try to associate familiar actions with familiar icons.** For example, people
can predict that a button containing the `square.and.arrow.up` symbol will
help them perform share-related activities. If it makes sense to use an icon
in your button, consider using an existing or customized
[symbol](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sf-symbols). For a list of symbols
that represent common actions, see [Standard icons](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/icons#Standard-icons).

**Consider using text when a short label communicates more clearly than an
icon.** To use text, write a few words that succinctly describe what the
button does. Using [title-style
capitalization](https://help.apple.com/applestyleguide/#/apsgb744e4a3?sub=apdca93e113f1d64),
consider starting the label with a verb to help convey the button’s action —
for example, a button that lets people add items to their shopping cart might
use the label “Add to Cart.”

## [Role](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Role)

A system button can have one of the following roles:

  * **Normal.** No specific meaning.

  * **Primary.** The button is the default button — the button people are most likely to choose.

  * **Cancel.** The button cancels the current action.

  * **Destructive.** The button performs an action that can result in data destruction.

A button’s role can have additional effects on its appearance. For example, a
primary button uses an app’s accent color, whereas a destructive button uses
the system red color.

**Assign the primary role to the button people are most likely to choose.**
When a primary button responds to the Return key, it makes it easy for people
to quickly confirm their choice. In addition, when the button is in a
temporary view — like a [sheet](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sheets), an
editable view, or an [alert](/design/human-interface-guidelines/alerts) —
assigning it the primary role means that the view can automatically close when
people press Return.

**Don’t assign the primary role to a button that performs a destructive
action, even if that action is the most likely choice.** Because of its visual
prominence, people sometimes choose a primary button without reading it first.
Help people avoid losing content by assigning the primary role to
nondestructive buttons.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/buttons#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for tvOS._

### [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#iOS-iPadOS)

**Configure a button to display an activity indicator when you need to provide
feedback about an action that doesn’t instantly complete.** Displaying an
activity indicator within a button can save space in your user interface while
clearly communicating the reason for the delay. To help clarify what’s
happening, you can also configure the button to display a different label
alongside the activity indicator. For example, the label “Checkout” could
change to “Checking out…” while the activity indicator is visible. When a
delay occurs after people click or tap your configured button, the system
displays the activity indicator next to the original or alternative label,
hiding the button image, if there is one.

### [macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#macOS)

Several specific button types are unique to macOS.

#### [Push buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Push-buttons)

The standard button type in macOS is known as a _push button_. You can
configure a push button to display text, a symbol, an icon, or an image, or a
combination of text and image content. Push buttons can act as the default
button in a view and you can tint them.

**Use a flexible-height push button only when you need to display tall or
variable height content.** Flexible-height buttons support the same
configurations as regular push buttons — and they use the same corner radius
and content padding — so they look consistent with other buttons in your
interface. If you need to present a button that contains two lines of text or
a tall icon, use a flexible-height button; otherwise, use a standard push
button. For developer guidance, see
[`NSButton.BezelStyle.flexiblePush`](/documentation/AppKit/NSButton/BezelStyle-
swift.enum/flexiblePush).

**Append a trailing ellipsis to the title when a push button opens another
window, view, or app.** Throughout the system, an ellipsis in a control title
signals that people can provide additional input. For example, the Edit
buttons in the AutoFill pane of Safari Settings include ellipses because they
open other views that let people modify autofill values.

**Consider supporting spring loading.** On systems with a Magic Trackpad,
_spring loading_ lets people activate a button by dragging selected items over
it and force clicking — that is, pressing harder — without dropping the
selected items. After force clicking, people can continue dragging the items,
possibly to perform additional actions.

#### [Square buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Square-
buttons)

A _square button_ (also known as a _gradient button_) initiates an action
related to a view, like adding or removing rows in a table.

Square buttons contain symbols or icons — not text — and you can configure
them to behave like push buttons, toggles, or pop-up buttons. The buttons
appear in close proximity to their associated view — usually within or beneath
it — so people know which view the buttons affect.

**Use square buttons in a view, not in the window frame.** Square buttons
aren’t intended for use in toolbars or status bars. If you need a button in a
[toolbar](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-
guidelines/toolbars), use a toolbar item.

**Prefer using a symbol in a square button.** [SF Symbols](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/sf-symbols) provides a wide range of symbols that
automatically receive appropriate coloring in their default state and in
response to user interaction.

**Avoid using labels to introduce square buttons.** Because square buttons are
closely connected with a specific view, their purpose is generally clear
without the need for descriptive text.

For developer guidance, see
[`NSButton.BezelStyle.smallSquare`](/documentation/AppKit/NSButton/BezelStyle-
swift.enum/smallSquare).

#### [Help buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Help-buttons)

A _help button_ appears within a view and opens app-specific help
documentation.

Help buttons are circular, consistently sized buttons that contain a question
mark. For guidance on creating help documentation, see [Offering
help](/design/human-interface-guidelines/offering-help).

**Use the system-provided help button to display your help documentation.**
People are familiar with the appearance of the standard help button and know
that choosing it opens help content.

**When possible, open the help topic that’s related to the current context.**
For example, the help button in the Rules pane of Mail settings opens the Mail
User Guide to a help topic that explains how to change these settings. If no
specific help topic applies directly to the current context, open the top
level of your app’s help documentation when people choose a help button.

**Include no more than one help button per window.** Multiple help buttons in
the same context make it hard for people to predict the result of clicking
one.

**Position help buttons where people expect to find them.** Use the following
locations for guidance.

View style| Help button location  
---|---  
Dialog with dismissal buttons (like OK and Cancel)| Lower corner, opposite to
the dismissal buttons and vertically aligned with them  
Dialog without dismissal buttons| Lower-left or lower-right corner  
Settings window or pane| Lower-left or lower-right corner  
  
**Use a help button within a view, not in the window frame.** For example,
avoid placing a help button in a toolbar or status bar.

**Avoid displaying text that introduces a help button.** People know what a
help button does, so they don’t need additional descriptive text.

#### [Image buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Image-buttons)

An _image button_ appears in a view and displays an image, symbol, or icon.
You can configure an image button to behave like a push button, toggle, or
pop-up button.

**Use an image button in a view, not in the window frame.** For example, avoid
placing an image button in a toolbar or status bar. If you need to use an
image as a button in a toolbar, use a toolbar item. See
[Toolbars](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars).

**Include about 10 pixels of padding between the edges of the image and the
button edges.** An image button’s edges define its clickable area even when
they aren’t visible. Including padding ensures that a click registers
correctly even if it’s not precisely within the image. In general, avoid
including a system-provided border in an image button; for developer guidance,
see [`isBordered`](/documentation/AppKit/NSButton/isBordered).

**If you need to include a label, position it below the image button.** For
related guidance, see [Labels](/design/human-interface-guidelines/labels).

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#visionOS)

A visionOS button typically includes a visible background that can help people
see it, and the button plays sound to provide feedback when people interact
with it.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: A recording showing the top portion of a window in
visionOS. The window contains several buttons, including a 'More' button,
which receives the hover effect. The button is selected and a menu containing
additional options appears.

Play

There are three standard button shapes in visionOS. Typically, an icon-only
button uses a [`circle`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ButtonBorderShape/circle)
shape, a text-only button uses a
[`roundedRectangle`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ButtonBorderShape/roundedRectangle)
or [`capsule`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ButtonBorderShape/capsule) shape, and a
button that includes both an icon and text uses the capsule shape.

visionOS buttons use different visual styles to communicate four different
interaction states.

![An image of a circular button that contains an icon of an outlined square
with rounded corners. The button background is dark and the dashed outline is
white.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/aed0b1c313448f088dd1ee24663db11e/visionos-
button-state-idle%402x.png)Idle

![An image of a circular button that contains an icon of an outlined square
with rounded corners. The button background is medium dark and the outline is
white.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/29d708fd7985184cbee9d90d7684da92/visionos-
button-state-hover%402x.png)Hover

![An image of a circular button that contains an icon of an outlined square
with rounded corners. The button background is white and the outline is
black.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/0b94e710605235dfca19ef853499cf26/visionos-
button-state-selected%402x.png)Selected

![An image of a circular button that contains an icon of an outlined square
with rounded corners. The button background is very dark and the outline is
light.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/737120252765e5427161af32bb17e7fb/visionos-
button-state-unavailable%402x.png)Unavailable

Note

In visionOS, buttons don’t support custom hover effects.

In addition to the four states shown above, a button can also reveal a tooltip
when people look at it for a brief time. In general, buttons that contain text
don’t need to display a tooltip because the button’s descriptive label
communicates what it does.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation showing a tooltip appearing beneath a
visionOS button.

Play

In visionOS, buttons can have the following sizes.

Shape| Mini (28 pt)| Small (32 pt)| Regular (44 pt)| Large (52 pt)| Extra
large (64 pt)  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Circular| ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-
availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting
availability.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-
availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting
availability.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-
availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting
availability.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-
availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting
availability.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-
availability-checkmark%402x.png)  
Capsule (text only)| | ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-availability-checkmark%402x.png)|   
Capsule (text and icon)| | | ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-availability-checkmark%402x.png)|   
Rounded rectangle| | ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-availability-checkmark%402x.png)| ![A checkmark denoting availability.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/9c1e6292b0ff3ee8f9e10917ad97f3da/table-availability-checkmark%402x.png)|   
  
**Prefer buttons that have a discernible background shape and fill.** It tends
to be easier for people to see a button when it’s enclosed in a shape that
uses a contrasting background fill. The exception is a button in a toolbar,
context menu, alert, or [ornament](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/ornaments) where the shape and material of the larger component
make the button comfortably visible. The following guidelines can help you
ensure that a button looks good in different contexts:

  * When a button appears on top of a glass [window](/design/human-interface-guidelines/windows#visionOS), use the [`thin`](/documentation/SwiftUI/Material/thin) material as the button’s background.

  * When a button appears floating in space, use the [glass material](/design/human-interface-guidelines/materials#visionOS) for its background.

**Avoid creating a custom button that uses a white background fill and black
text or icons.** The system reserves this visual style to convey the toggled
state.

**In general, prefer circular or capsule-shape buttons.** People’s eyes tend
to be drawn toward the corners in a shape, making it difficult to keep looking
at the shape’s center. The more rounded a button’s shape, the easier it is for
people to look steadily at it. When you need to display a button by itself,
prefer a capsule-shape button.

**Provide enough space around a button to make it easy for people to look at
it.** Aim to place buttons so their centers are always at least 60 pts apart.
If your buttons measure 60 pts or larger, add 4 pts of padding around them to
keep the hover effect from overlapping. Also, it’s usually best to avoid
displaying small or mini buttons in a vertical stack or horizontal row.

**Choose the right shape if you need to display text-labeled buttons in a
stack or row.** Specifically, prefer the rounded-rectangle shape in a vertical
stack of buttons and prefer the capsule shape in a horizontal row of buttons.

**Use standard controls to take advantage of the audible feedback sounds
people already know.** Audible feedback is especially important in visionOS,
because the system doesn’t play haptics.

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#watchOS)

watchOS displays all inline buttons using the
[`capsule`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ButtonBorderShape/capsule) button shape.
When you place a button inline with content, it gains a material effect that
contrasts with the background to ensure legibility.

![An illustration that represents a screen on Apple Watch, which includes
capsule-shaped Primary and Secondary buttons.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/79565402ab107166de9aa0fe6eab4e6d/buttons-
watch-full-width%402x.png)

**Use a toolbar to place buttons in the corners.** The system automatically
moves the time and title to accommodate toolbar buttons. The system also
applies the [Liquid Glass](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/materials#Liquid-Glass) appearance to toolbar buttons, providing a
clear visual distinction from the content beneath them.

![An illustration showing toolbar buttons in the top leading and trailing
corners, as well as three toolbar buttons across the bottom of the
screen.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/28835a2c6f34513eb0758beef1f6015d/buttons-
watch-toolbar-corners%402x.png)

**Prefer buttons that span the width of the screen for primary actions in your
app.** Full-width buttons look better and are easier for people to tap. If two
buttons must share the same horizontal space, use the same height for both,
and use images or short text titles for each button’s content.

**Use toolbar buttons to provide either navigation to related areas or
contextual actions for the view’s content.** These buttons provide access to
additional information or secondary actions for the view’s content.

**Use the same height for vertical stacks of one- and two-line text buttons.**
As much as possible, use identical button heights for visual consistency.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Related)

[Pop-up buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/pop-up-buttons)

[Pull-down buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/pull-down-buttons)

[Toggles](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toggles)

[Segmented controls](/design/human-interface-guidelines/segmented-controls)

[Location button](/design/human-interface-guidelines/privacy#Location-button)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/buttons#Developer-documentation)

[`Button`](/documentation/SwiftUI/Button) — SwiftUI

[`UIButton`](/documentation/UIKit/UIButton) — UIKit

[`NSButton`](/documentation/AppKit/NSButton) — AppKit

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 9, 2025| Updated guidance for button styles and content.  
February 2, 2024| Noted that visionOS buttons don’t support custom hover
effects.  
December 5, 2023| Clarified some terminology and guidance for buttons in
visionOS.  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.  
June 5, 2023| Updated guidance for using buttons in watchOS.

