# Camera Control

The Camera Control provides direct access to your app’s camera experience.

On iPhone 16 and iPhone 16 Pro models, the Camera Control quickly opens your
app’s camera experience to capture moments as they happen. When a person
lightly presses the Camera Control, the system displays an overlay that
extends from the device bezel.

The overlay allows people to quickly adjust controls. A person can view the
available controls by lightly double-pressing the Camera Control. After
selecting a control, they can slide their finger on the Camera Control to
adjust a value to capture their content as they want.

Controls in the overlay

## [Anatomy](/design/human-interface-guidelines/camera-control#Anatomy)

The Camera Control offers two types of controls for adjusting values or
changing between options:

  * A _slider_ provides a range of values to choose from, such as how much contrast to apply to the content.

  * A _picker_ offers discrete options, such as turning a grid on and off in the viewfinder.

Slider control

Picker control

In addition to custom controls that you create, the system provides a set of
standard controls that you can optionally include in the overlay to allow
someone to adjust their camera’s zoom and exposure.

Zoom factor control

Exposure bias control

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/camera-control#Best-
practices)

**Use SF Symbols to represent control functionality.** The system doesn’t
support custom symbols; instead, pick a symbol from SF Symbols that clearly
denotes a control’s behavior. iOS offers thousands of symbols you can use to
represent the controls your app shows in the overlay. Symbols for controls
don’t represent their current state. To view available symbols, see the Camera
& Photos section in the [SF Symbols app](https://developer.apple.com/sf-
symbols/).

The `bolt.fill` symbol that represents a control for the camera flash

The `camera.filters` symbol that represents a control for filters

**Keep names of controls short.** Control labels adhere to Dynamic Type sizes,
and longer names may obfuscate the camera’s viewfinder.

**Include units or symbols with slider control values to provide context.**
Providing descriptive information in the overlay, such as EV, %, or a custom
string, helps people understand what the slider controls. For developer
guidance, see
[`localizedValueFormat`](/documentation/AVFoundation/AVCaptureSlider/localizedValueFormat).

Value with context

Value without context

**Define prominent values for a slider control.** Prominent values are ones
people choose most frequently, or values that are evenly spaced, like the
major increments of zoom factor. When a person slides on the Camera Control to
adjust a slider control, the system more easily lands on prominent values you
define. For developer guidance, see
[`prominentValues`](/documentation/AVFoundation/AVCaptureSlider/prominentValues-199dz).

**Make space for the overlay in the viewfinder.** The overlay and control
labels occupy the screen area adjacent to the Camera Control in both portrait
and landscape orientations. To avoid overlapping the interface elements of
your camera capture experience, place your UI outside of the overlay areas.
Maximize the height and width of the viewfinder and allow the overlay to
appear and disappear over it.

**Minimize distractions in the viewfinder.** When capturing a photo or video,
people appreciate a large preview image with as few visual distractions as
possible. Avoid duplicating controls, like sliders and toggles, in your UI and
the overlay when the system displays the overlay.

Keep UI minimal.

Avoid showing controls in the viewfinder that people access in the overlay.

**Enable or disable controls depending on the camera mode.** For example,
disable video controls when taking photos. The overlay supports multiple
controls, but you can’t remove or add controls at runtime.

**Consider how to arrange your controls.** Order commonly used controls toward
the middle to allow quick access, and include lesser used controls on either
side. When a person lightly presses the Camera Control to open the overlay
again, the system remembers the last control they used in your app.

**Allow people to use the Camera Control to launch your experience from
anywhere.** Create a locked camera capture extension that lets people
configure the Camera Control to launch your app’s camera experience from their
locked device, the Home Screen, or from within other apps. For guidance, see
[Camera experiences on a locked device](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/controls#Camera-experiences-on-a-locked-device).

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/camera-
control#Platform-considerations)

 _Not supported in iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS, or visionOS._

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/camera-control#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/camera-control#Related)

[SF Symbols](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sf-symbols)

[Controls](/design/human-interface-guidelines/controls)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/camera-
control#Developer-documentation)

[Enhancing your app experience with the Camera
Control](/documentation/AVFoundation/enhancing-your-app-experience-with-the-
camera-control) — AVFoundation

[`AVCaptureControl`](/documentation/AVFoundation/AVCaptureControl) —
AVFoundation

[LockedCameraCapture](/documentation/LockedCameraCapture)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/camera-control#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
September 9, 2024| New page.

