# File management

Some apps can support documents and files that people expect to manage
throughout the system.

Document-based apps — such as Pages, Keynote, Photos, and Preview — help
people create, edit, and save documents and files, often providing customized
ways for people to browse for content they want to open in the app.

People also expect to browse documents without first opening a document-based
app. On a Mac, for example, people use the Finder to access the macOS file
system; on iPhone, iPad, and Apple Vision Pro, people use the Files app to
manage the documents and files on their device. In watchOS and tvOS, people
don’t typically create, edit, or manage documents, so these systems don’t
provide a document-browsing interface.

## [Creating and opening files](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-
management#Creating-and-opening-files)

**Use app menus and keyboard shortcuts to give people convenient ways to
create and open documents.** In iPadOS and macOS, people expect to create new
documents or open existing ones using familiar menu commands. When you provide
commands like New or Open, iPadOS presents them in the shortcuts interface
that displays when people hold the Command key on a connected hardware
keyboard, and macOS presents them in the menu bar File menu. Regardless of the
availability of keyboard shortcuts, include an Add (+) button to help people
create a new document. In a macOS app, you put the add action in the File menu
(for guidance, see [File menu](/design/human-interface-guidelines/the-menu-
bar#File-menu)).

**If your app requires a custom file browser, support people’s understanding
of the platform’s file system.** People who are familiar with the Finder and
Files apps already understand the basic layout of their device’s file system.
Although you might want to show the most relevant part of the file system when
your custom file browser opens — for example, a Documents or iCloud folder or
the most recently selected location — let people use your browser to view the
rest of the file system if they want.

## [Saving work](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-management#Saving-
work)

**Help people be confident that their work is always preserved unless they
cancel or delete it.** In general, avoid making people take an explicit action
to save their work. Instead, automatically perform periodic saves while
they’re editing and when they close a file or switch to another app.

**Hide file extensions by default, but let people view them if they choose.**
Be sure to reflect the current choice in all the save or open interfaces you
display.

## [Quick Look previews](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-
management#Quick-Look-previews)

Quick Look helps you create previews of the files your app handles so that
people can view them within your app and in some cases interact with them. For
example, you can use Quick Look to let people listen to a preview of an audio
file, add markup to a photo’s preview, or rotate and scale a 3D file preview
to examine it in different ways.

**Use a Quick Look viewer to let people preview a file even when your app
can’t open it.** If your app lets people attach or otherwise interact with
files that it doesn’t support, implementing a Quick Look viewer lets people
preview those files without leaving your app.

**Consider implementing a Quick Look generator if your app produces custom
file types.** A Quick Look generator lets other apps — including the Finder,
Files, and Spotlight — display previews of your documents, making it easier
for people to find them.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-
management#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for tvOS, visionOS, or watchOS._

### [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-management#iOS-
iPadOS)

#### [Document launcher](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-
management#Document-launcher)

Starting in iOS 18 and iPadOS 18, document-based apps can use the system’s
document launcher to give people a consistent, highly graphical way to browse,
open, and create files. The document launcher presents a full-screen
experience that highlights key elements of your app’s theme, while making it
easy for people to create new documents. For developer guidance, see
[`DocumentGroupLaunchScene`](/documentation/SwiftUI/DocumentGroupLaunchScene).

The document launcher consists of three main parts:

  * A _title card_ that displays the app title and two app-specific buttons

  * A background image that appears behind the title card and additional images — called _accessories_ — that can appear around it

  * A sheet that contains a file browser and optional app-specific controls

You can customize all three parts of the document launcher. Although the
system automatically displays your app name in the title card, you specify the
text and functions of the card’s primary and secondary buttons. You can also
create a custom background image, one or more accessory images to surround the
title card, and provide some custom controls that can appear in the file
browser’s toolbar.

**Assign the title card’s buttons to your app’s most important functions.**
The primary button typically creates a new document, and the secondary button
can provide additional options. For example, the primary button in Numbers is
Start Writing and the secondary button is Choose a Template.

**Provide a background that’s clearly distinct from the accessories and title
card.** You can use a solid color, a gradient, or a pattern. Avoid including
complex images or patterns that might distract from foreground elements.

**Be mindful of accessory placement.** For example, you can place accessories
both in front of and behind the title card to create the appearance of depth,
but you need to make sure that your app name and both buttons remain clearly
visible. Avoid cluttering the title card with too many accessories, and be
sure to test its overall appearance across the range of screen sizes and
device orientations that you support.

**Use animation sparingly.** Too much motion on the display can confuse or
disorient people. If you want to animate your accessories, consider creating
gentle, repeating animations that subtly highlight and enhance your app’s
content. For example, you might create an animation that makes an accessory
appear to breathe or sway softly. For guidance, see [Motion](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/motion).

#### [File provider app extension](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-
management#File-provider-app-extension)

If your app can share its files with other apps, you can create a file
provider app extension that displays a custom interface for importing,
exporting, opening, and moving your app’s documents. For developer guidance,
see [File Provider](/documentation/FileProvider). An _app extension_ is code
you provide that people can install and use to extend the functionality of a
specific area of the system; to learn more, see [App
extensions](https://developer.apple.com/app-extensions/).

**When someone uses your file provider extension to open or import documents,
display only documents that are appropriate in the current context.** For
example, if a PDF-editing app loads your extension, only list PDF files for
opening or import. You might also want to display additional information, such
as modification dates, sizes, and whether documents are local or remote.

**Let people select a destination when exporting and moving documents.**
Unless your app stores documents in a single directory, let people navigate to
a specific destination in your directory hierarchy. You could also provide a
way to add new subdirectories.

**Avoid including a custom top toolbar.** Your extension loads within a modal
view that already includes a toolbar. Providing a second toolbar is confusing
and takes space away from your content.

Your app can also let people browse and open files from other apps. For
developer guidance, see [Adding a document browser to your
app](/documentation/UIKit/adding-a-document-browser-to-your-app).

### [macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-management#macOS)

#### [Custom file management](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-
management#Custom-file-management)

People have strong associations with the familiar file browsing experience of
the Finder and most document-based apps. Use the default file browser unless
you have an important reason to create a custom one.

**Make your custom file-opening interface convenient.** For example, people
might appreciate an “open recent” action in addition to the simple “open”
action. You might also want to let people choose criteria on which to filter
the file-browsing experience, or select multiple documents to open at once. In
a macOS open panel, you can customize the title of the Open button to reflect
the task — for example, if your app lets people insert a file’s contents into
the current document, you might change the title to Insert.

**Provide a save interface to let people change a file’s name, format, or
location.** By default, a new document’s title is “Untitled” until people
choose a custom name. As with a document-opening interface, a save view can
also provide a browsing experience that defaults to a logical location to help
people place the saved document where they want. If you support saving content
in different formats, also give people a way to choose a specific file format.

**Consider extending the functionality of the Save dialog.** If it makes sense
in your app, you can add a custom accessory view containing useful settings or
options to the Save dialog. For example, the dialog for saving Mail messages
as files contains an option to include attachments.

#### [Finder Sync extensions](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-
management#Finder-Sync-extensions)

If your app syncs local and remote files, you can create a Finder Sync app
extension to express file synchronization status and control within the
Finder. For developer guidance, see [Finder Sync](/documentation/FinderSync).

For example, you can use a Finder Sync extension to:

  * Display badges in the Finder to indicate the sync status of items

  * Provide custom contextual menu items that perform file and folder management tasks, like favoriting and adding password-protection

  * Provide custom toolbar buttons that perform global actions, like initiating a sync operation

**Help people avoid losing work if they turn off autosaving.** People can turn
off autosaving by selecting the “Ask to keep changes when closing documents”
toggle in Desktop & Dock settings. In this scenario, show that a document has
unsaved changes and present a save dialog when people choose to close the
document, quit your app, log out, or restart.

**When autosaving is off, make sure people know when a document has unsaved
changes.** To show that there are unsaved changes, display a dot on the
document window’s close button and next to the document’s name in your app’s
Window menu. When autosaving is on, showing a dot in these locations is
confusing, because it implies that people need to take action to avoid losing
their work. Regardless of autosave status, you can append “Edited” to the
document’s title in the title bar, but be sure to remove this suffix as soon
as autosave occurs or when people explicitly save their work.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-management#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-management#Related)

[Toolbars](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars)

[File menu](/design/human-interface-guidelines/the-menu-bar#File-menu)

[Printing](/design/human-interface-guidelines/printing)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-
management#Developer-documentation)

[Documents](/documentation/SwiftUI/Documents) — SwiftUI

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-management#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/49/68960E87-E488-40C3-90E3-A820B5119FF0/3727_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Build document-based apps in SwiftUI
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2020/10039)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/file-management#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 10, 2024| Added guidelines for using the document launcher in iOS and
iPadOS.  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.

