# Game controls

Precise, intuitive game controls enhance gameplay and can increase a player’s
immersion in the game.

On Apple platforms, a game can support input from physical game controllers or
default system interactions, like touch, a remote, or a mouse and keyboard.
Players might prefer to use physical game controllers, but there are two
important reasons to also support a platform’s default interaction methods:

  * Even though all platforms except watchOS support physical game controllers, not every player might have access to one.

  * Players appreciate games that let them use the platform interaction method they’re most familiar with.

To reach the widest audience and provide the best experience for each
platform, keep these factors in mind when choosing the input methods to
support.

## [Touch controls](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls#Touch-
controls)

For iOS and iPadOS games, supporting touch interaction means that you can
provide virtual controls on top of game content while also letting players
interact with game elements by touching them directly. You can use the [Touch
Controller](/documentation/TouchController) framework to add these virtual
controls to your game. Keep the following guidelines in mind to create an
enjoyable touch control experience.

**Determine whether it makes sense to display virtual controls on top of game
content.** In general, virtual game controls benefit games that offer a large
number of actions or require players to control movement. However, sometimes
gameplay is more immersive and effective when players can interact directly
with in-game objects. Look for opportunities to reduce the amount of virtual
controls that overlap your game content by associating actions with in-game
gestures instead. For example, consider letting players tap objects to select
them instead of adding a virtual selection button.

**Place virtual buttons where they’re easy to access.** Take into account the
device’s boundaries and [safe areas](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/layout#Guides-and-safe-areas) as well as comfortable locations for
controls. Make sure to position buttons where they don’t overlap system
features like the Home indicator or Dynamic Island on iPhone. Place frequently
used buttons near a player’s thumb, avoiding the circular regions where
players expect movement and camera input to happen. Place secondary controls,
like menus, at the top of the screen.

Placing virtual controls within reach of people’s thumbs can make your game
more comfortable to play.

**Make sure controls are large enough.** Make sure frequently used controls
are a minimum size of 44x44 pt, and less important controls, such as menus,
are a minimum size of 28x28 pt to accommodate people’s fingers.

**Always include visible and tactile press states.** A virtual control feels
unresponsive without a visual and physical press state. Help players
understand when they successfully interact with a button by adding a visual
press state effect, such as a glow, that they can see even when their finger
is covering the control. Combine this press state with sound and haptics to
enhance the feeling of feedback. For guidance, see [Playing
haptics](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics).

**Use symbols that communicate the actions they perform.** Choose artwork that
visually represents the action each button performs, such as a graphic of a
weapon to represent an attack. Avoid using abstract shapes or controller-based
naming like A, X, or R1 as artwork, which makes it harder for players to
understand and remember what specific controls do.

**Show and hide virtual controls to reflect gameplay.** Take advantage of the
dynamic nature of touch controls and adapt what controls players see onscreen
depending on their context. You can hide controls when an action isn’t
available or relevant, letting you reduce clutter and help players concentrate
on what’s important. For example, consider hiding movement controls until a
player touches the screen to reduce the amount of UI overlapping your game
content.

  * Visible control 
  * Hidden control 

When the thumbstick moves to the right, it becomes more visible and shows a
highlight to indicate the movement direction.

![A graphic that shows gameplay with a virtual control to move the character
that's less visible while the character is at rest.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/8feb4b819cccdf9a74fa7c3ccd5d6e42/game-
controls-thumbstick-at-rest%402x.png)

When the thumbstick is at rest, the virtual control fades to show it’s not in
use.

**Combine functionality into a single control.** Consider redesigning game
mechanics that require players to press multiple buttons at the same time or
in a sequence. Leverage gestures such as double tap and touch and hold to
provide different variations of the same action, such as touch and hold to use
a special powered up version of an attack. For multiple actions, such as
walking or sprinting, consider combining the actions into a single control.

**Map movement and camera controls to predictable behavior.** Typically,
players expect to control movement using the left side of their screen, and
control camera direction using the right side of their screen. Maximize the
amount of space that players can control both movement and the camera
direction by using as large of an input area as possible. For movement
control, opt to show a virtual thumbstick wherever the player lands their
thumb instead of a static thumbstick position. For camera control, opt to use
direct touch to pan the camera instead of a virtual thumbstick.

## [Physical controllers](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-
controls#Physical-controllers)

**Support the platform’s default interaction method.** A game controller is an
optional purchase, but every iPhone and iPad has a touchscreen, every Mac has
a keyboard and a trackpad or mouse, every Apple TV has a remote, and every
Apple Vision Pro responds to gestures people make with their eyes and hands.
If you support game controllers, try to make sure there’s a fallback for using
the platform’s default interaction method. For developer guidance, see [Adding
touch controls to games that support game controllers in
iOS](/documentation/GameController/adding-touch-controls-to-games-that-
support-game-controllers-in-ios).

**Tell people about game controller requirements.** In tvOS and visionOS, you
can require the use of a physical game controller. The App Store displays a
“Game Controller Required” badge to help people identify such apps. Remember
that people can open your game at any time, even without a connected
controller. If your app requires a game controller, check for its presence and
gracefully prompt people to connect one. For developer guidance, see
[`GCRequiresControllerUserInteraction`](/documentation/BundleResources/Information-
Property-List/GCRequiresControllerUserInteraction).

**Automatically detect whether a controller is paired.** Instead of having
players manually set up a physical game controller, you can automatically
detect whether a controller is paired and get its profile. For developer
documentation, see [Game Controller](/documentation/GameController).

![An illustration of a game controller with callouts that indicate the
locations of the controller’s triggers, shoulder buttons, directional pad, and
thumbsticks.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/40b70c72921efd92b91da0453533baaa/game-
controls-controller-anatomy%402x.png)

**Customize onscreen content to match the connected game controller.** To
simplify your game’s code, the Game Controller framework assigns standard
names to controller elements based on their placement, but the colors and
symbols on an actual game controller may differ. Be sure to use the connected
controller’s labeling scheme when referring to controls or displaying related
content in your interface. For developer guidance, see
[`GCControllerElement`](/documentation/GameController/GCControllerElement).

**Map controller buttons to expected UI behavior.** Outside of gameplay,
players expect to navigate your game’s UI in a way that matches the familiar
behavior of the platform they’re playing on. When not controlling gameplay,
follow these conventions across all Apple platforms:

Button| Expected behavior for UI  
---|---  
A| Activates a control  
B| Cancels an action or returns to previous screen  
X| —  
Y| —  
Left shoulder| Navigates left to a different screen or section  
Right shoulder| Navigates right to a different screen or section  
Left trigger| —  
Right trigger| —  
Left/right thumbstick| Moves selection  
Directional pad| Moves selection  
Home/logo| Reserved for system controls  
Menu| Opens game settings or pauses gameplay  
  
**Support multiple connected controllers.** If there are multiple controllers
connected, use labels and glyphs that match the one that the player is
actively using. If your game supports multiplayer, use the appropriate labels
and symbols when referring to a specific player’s controller. If you need to
refer to buttons on multiple controllers, consider listing them together.

**Prefer using symbols, not text, to refer to game controller elements.** The
Game Controller framework makes [SF Symbols](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/sf-symbols) available for most elements, including the buttons on
various brands of game controllers. Using symbols instead of text descriptions
can be especially helpful for players who aren’t experienced with controllers
because it doesn’t require them to hunt for a specific button label during
gameplay.

![A screenshot of the SF Symbols app showing symbols in the Gaming
category.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/c76627e659aa17ab46a638437cc5d33c/game-
controls-sf-symbols-gaming-category%402x.png)

## [Keyboards](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls#Keyboards)

Keyboard players appreciate using keyboard bindings to speed up their
interactions with apps and games.

**Prioritize single-key commands.** Single-key commands are generally easier
and faster for players to perform, especially while they’re simultaneously
using a mouse or trackpad. For example, you might use the first letter of a
menu item as a shortcut, such as I for Inventory or M for Map; you might also
map the game’s main action to the Space bar, taking advantage of the key’s
relatively large size.

**Test key binding comfort game using an Apple keyboard.** For example, if a
key binding uses the Control key (^) on a non-Apple keyboard, consider
remapping it to the Command key (⌘) on an Apple keyboard. On Apple keyboards,
the Command key is conveniently located next to the Space bar, making it
especially easy to reach when players are using the W, A, S, and D keys.

**Take the proximity of keys into account.** For example, if players navigate
using the W, A, S, and D keys, consider using nearby keys to define other
high-value commands. Similarly, if there’s a group of closely related actions,
it can work well to map their bindings to keys that are physically close
together, such as using the number keys for inventory categories.

**Let players customize key bindings.** Although players tend to expect a
reasonable set of defaults, many people need to customize a game’s key
bindings for personal comfort and play style.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-
controls#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS, iPadOS, macOS, or tvOS. Not supported
in watchOS._

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls#visionOS)

**Match spatial game controller behavior to hand input.** In addition to
supporting a wide array of wireless game controllers, your visionOS game can
also support spatial game controllers such as PlayStation VR2 Sense
controller. Allow players to interact with your game in a similar manner to
how they interact using their hands. Specifically, support looking at an
object and pressing the controller’s left or right trigger button to
indirectly interact, or reaching out and pressing the left or right trigger
button to directly interact. For more information, see
[visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#visionOS).

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls#Related)

[Designing for games](/design/human-interface-guidelines/designing-for-games)

[Gestures](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures)

[Keyboards](/design/human-interface-guidelines/keyboards)

[Playing haptics](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-
controls#Developer-documentation)

[Create games for Apple platforms](https://developer.apple.com/games/)

[Touch Controller](/documentation/TouchController)

[Game Controller](/documentation/GameController)

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/2DB746B8-E0B0-4ED1-B250-902DB7A0F3E7/9196_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Design advanced games for Apple platforms
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10085)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/119/AD3141F9-6984-4328-9388-551C8677F6A2/4973_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Tap into virtual and physical game controllers
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2021/10081)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/51863C09-0E96-4230-91A3-B85E950FBF3D/9205_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Explore game input in visionOS
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10094)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 9, 2025| Updated touch control best practices, updated game controller
mapping for UI, and added guidance for spatial game controller support in
visionOS.  
June 10, 2024| Added guidance for supporting touch controls and changed title
from Game controllers.

