# Gestures

A gesture is a physical motion that a person uses to directly affect an object
in an app or game on their device.

Depending on the device they’re using, people can make gestures on a
touchscreen, in the air, or on a range of input devices such as a trackpad,
mouse, remote, or game controller that includes a touch surface.

Every platform supports basic gestures like tap, swipe, and drag. Although the
precise movements that make up basic gestures can vary per platform and input
device, people are familiar with the underlying functionality of these
gestures and expect to use them everywhere. For a list of these gestures, see
[Standard gestures](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Standard-
gestures).

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Best-
practices)

**Give people more than one way to interact with your app.** People commonly
prefer or need to use other inputs — such as their voice, keyboard, or Switch
Control — to interact with their devices. Don’t assume that people can use a
specific gesture to perform a given task. For guidance, see
[Accessibility](/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility).

**In general, respond to gestures in ways that are consistent with people’s
expectations.** People expect most gestures to work the same regardless of
their current context. For example, people expect tap to activate or select an
object. Avoid using a familiar gesture like tap or swipe to perform an action
that’s unique to your app; similarly, avoid creating a unique gesture to
perform a standard action like activating a button or scrolling a long view.

**Handle gestures as responsively as possible.** Useful gestures enhance the
experience of direct manipulation and provide immediate feedback. As people
perform a gesture in your app, provide feedback that helps them predict its
results and, if necessary, communicates the extent and type of movement
required to complete the action.

**Indicate when a gesture isn’t available.** If you don’t clearly communicate
why a gesture doesn’t work, people might think your app has frozen or they
aren’t performing the gesture correctly, leading to frustration. For example,
if someone tries to drag a locked object, the UI may not indicate that the
object’s position has been locked; or if they try to activate an unavailable
button, the button’s unavailable state may not be clearly distinct from its
available state.

## [Custom gestures](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Custom-
gestures)

**Add custom gestures only when necessary.** Custom gestures work best when
you design them for specialized tasks that people perform frequently and that
aren’t covered by existing gestures, like in a game or drawing app. If you
decide to implement a custom gesture, make sure it’s:

  * Discoverable

  * Straightforward to perform

  * Distinct from other gestures

  * Not the only way to perform an important action in your app or game

**Make custom gestures easy to learn.** Offer moments in your app to help
people quickly learn and perform custom gestures, and make sure to test your
interactions in real use scenarios. If you’re finding it difficult to use
simple language and graphics to describe a gesture, it may mean people will
find the gesture difficult to learn and perform.

**Use shortcut gestures to supplement standard gestures, not replace them.**
While you may supply a custom gesture to quickly access parts of your app,
people also need simple, familiar ways to navigate and perform actions, even
if it means an extra tap or two. For example, in an app that supports
navigation through a hierarchy of views, people expect to find a Back button
in a top toolbar that lets them return to the previous view with a single tap.
To help accelerate this action, many apps also offer a shortcut gesture — such
as swiping from the side of a window or touchscreen — while continuing to
provide the Back button.

**Avoid conflicting with gestures that access system UI.** Several platforms
offer gestures for accessing system behaviors, like edge swiping in watchOS or
rolling your hand over to access system overlays in visionOS. It’s important
to avoid defining custom gestures that might conflict with these interactions,
as people expect these controls to work consistently. In specific
circumstances within games or immersive experiences, developers can work
around this area by deferring the system gesture. For more information, see
the platform considerations for iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, and visionOS.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/gestures#Platform-considerations)

### [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#iOS-iPadOS)

In addition to the [standard gestures](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/gestures#Standard-gestures) supported in all platforms, iOS and
iPadOS support a few other gestures that people expect.

Gesture| Common action  
---|---  
Three-finger swipe| Initiate undo (left swipe); initiate redo (right swipe).  
Three-finger pinch| Copy selected text (pinch in); paste copied text (pinch
out).  
Four-finger swipe (iPadOS only)| Switch between apps.  
Shake| Initiate undo; initiate redo.  
  
**Consider allowing simultaneous recognition of multiple gestures if it
enhances the experience.** Although simultaneous gestures are unlikely to be
useful in nongame apps, a game might include multiple onscreen controls — such
as a joystick and firing buttons — that people can operate at the same time.
For guidance on integrating touchscreen input with Apple Pencil input in your
iPadOS app, see [Apple Pencil and Scribble](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/apple-pencil-and-scribble).

### [macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#macOS)

People primarily interact with macOS using a [keyboard](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/keyboards) and mouse. In addition, they can make
[standard gestures](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Standard-
gestures) on a Magic Trackpad, Magic Mouse, or a [game
controller](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls) that includes a
touch surface.

### [tvOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#tvOS)

People expect to use [standard gestures](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/gestures#Standard-gestures) to navigate tvOS apps and games with a
compatible remote, Siri Remote, or [game controller](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/game-controls) that includes a touch surface. For guidance, see
[Remotes](/design/human-interface-guidelines/remotes).

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#visionOS)

visionOS supports two categories of gestures: indirect and direct.

People use an _indirect_ gesture by looking at an object to target it, and
then manipulating that object from a distance — indirectly — with their hands.
For example, a person can look at a button to focus it and select it by
quickly tapping their finger and thumb together. Indirect gestures are
comfortable to perform at any distance, and let people quickly change focus
between different objects and select items with minimal movement.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: A recording showing a closeup view of the top portion of
a window in visionOS. A button in the window becomes highlighted. A picture-
in-picture window is visible in the bottom-right corner of the recording. It
shows a person's hand performing the indirect tap gesture. In response to the
gesture, the highlighted button in the window activates.

Play

People use a _direct_ gesture to physically touch an interactive object. For
example, people can directly type on the visionOS keyboard by tapping the
virtual keys. Direct gestures work best when they are within reach. Because
people may find it tiring to keep their arms raised for extended periods,
direct gestures are best for infrequent use. visionOS also supports direct
versions of all standard gestures, allowing people the choice to interact
directly or indirectly with any standard component.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: A recording showing a table with a vertical stack of
three virtual cubic blocks on it in visionOS. A person moves their hand toward
the blocks from right to left, and their extended fingers touch and push aside
the center block. The center block falls to the side, and the other block also
tumbles onto the tabletop.

Play

Here are the standard direct gestures people use in visionOS; see
[Specifications](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Specifications)
for a list of standard indirect gestures.

Direct gesture| Common use  
---|---  
Touch| Directly select or activate an object.  
Touch and hold| Open a contextual menu.  
Touch and drag| Move an object to a new location.  
Double touch| Preview an object or file; select a word in an editing context.  
Swipe| Reveal actions and controls; dismiss views; scroll.  
With two hands, pinch and drag together or apart| Zoom in or out.  
With two hands, pinch and drag in a circular motion| Rotate an object.  
  
**Support standard gestures everywhere you can.** For example, as soon as
someone looks at an object in your app or game, tap is the first gesture
they’re likely to make when they want to select or activate it. Even if you
also support custom gestures, supporting standard gestures such as tap helps
people get comfortable with your app or game quickly.

**Offer both indirect and direct interactions when possible.** Prefer indirect
gestures for UI and common components like buttons. Reserve direct gestures
and custom gestures for objects that invite close-up interaction or specific
motions in a game or interactive experience.

**Avoid requiring specific body movements or positions for input.** Not all
people can perform specific body movements or position themselves in certain
ways at all times, whether due to disability, spatial constraints, or other
environmental factors. If your experience requires movement, consider
supporting alternative inputs to let people choose the interaction method that
works best for them.

#### [Designing custom gestures in visionOS](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/gestures#Designing-custom-gestures-in-visionOS)

If you want to offer a specific interaction for your experience that people
can’t perform using an existing system gesture, consider designing a custom
gesture. To offer this type of interaction, your app needs to be running in a
Full Space, and you must request people’s permission to access information
about their hands. For developer guidance, see [Setting up access to ARKit
data](/documentation/visionOS/setting-up-access-to-arkit-data).

![A screenshot of a person's hands performing a custom gesture, placing the
two hands together to form a heart, while playing a visionOS
game.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/363ecbc8eeb441809f62ae935e13fbdc/visionos-
custom-spatial-gesture-happy-beam%402x.png)

**Prioritize comfort.** Continually test ergonomics of all interactions that
require custom gestures. A custom interaction that requires people to keep
their arms raised for even a little while can be physically tiring, and
repeating very similar movements many times in succession can stress people’s
muscles and joints.

**Carefully consider complex custom gestures that involve multiple fingers or
both hands.** People may not always have both hands available when using your
app or game. If you require a more complex gesture for your experience,
consider also offering an alternative that requires less movement.

**Avoid custom gestures that require using a specific hand.** It can increase
someone’s cognitive load if they need to remember which hand to use to trigger
a custom gesture. It may also make your experience less welcoming to people
with strong hand-dominance or limb differences.

#### [Working with system overlays in visionOS](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/gestures#Working-with-system-overlays-in-visionOS)

In visionOS 2 and later, people can look at the palm of one hand and use
gestures to quickly access system overlays for Home and Control Center. These
interactions are available systemwide, and are reserved solely for accessing
system overlays.

Note

The system overlay is the default method of accessing Control Center in
visionOS 2 and later. The visionOS 1 behavior (looking upward) remains
available as an accessibility setting.

When designing apps and games that use custom gestures or anchor content to a
person’s hands, it’s important to take interactions with the system overlays
into consideration.

**Reserve the area around a person’s hand for system overlays and their
related gestures.** If possible, don’t anchor content to a person’s hands or
wrists. If you’re designing a game that involves hand-anchored content, place
it outside of the immediate area of someone’s hand to avoid colliding with the
Home indicator.

![An illustration of a person's open hand with the palm facing upward. A
dashed circular line above the hand indicates the area reserved for system
overlays.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/de8c04a523a3e225c723c5c09c458e1c/visionos-
hand-area-of-focus%402x.png)The area reserved for interacting with system
overlays.

![An illustration of a person's open hand with the palm facing upward. A
button with a circle icon representing the Home indicator appears above the
palm.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/961d33f07da24b20848f3502d2cea134/visionos-
spatial-gesture-home-indicator%402x.png)A person looks at their palm to reveal
the Home indicator.

![An illustration of a person's open hand with the palm facing downward. An
overlay with the status bar appears above the hand.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/f1d5a8816f65f35853ccd513355272d8/visionos-
spatial-gesture-control-center%402x.png)A person turns their hand to reveal
the status bar, and can tap to open Control Center.

**Consider deferring the system overlay behavior when designing an immersive
app or game.** In certain circumstances, you may not want the Home indicator
to appear when someone looks at the palm of their hand. For example, a game
that uses virtual hands or gloves may want to keep someone within the world of
the story, even if they happen to look at their hands from different angles.
In such cases, when your app is running in a Full Space, you can choose to
require a tap to reveal the Home indicator instead. For developer guidance,
see
[`persistentSystemOverlays(_:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/persistentSystemOverlays\(_:\)).

![An image of a person's open hand with the palm facing upward, shown from the
person's perspective. A button with a circle icon representing the Home
indicator appears above the palm. The image background shows the room that's
the person's surroundings.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/dc6b4a94633c063ddd432dcc8043cae3/gestures-
default-home-indicator%402x.png)Default behavior in the Shared Space

![An image of a person's open hand with the palm facing upward, shown from the
person's perspective. A button with a circle icon representing the Home
indicator appears above the palm. The image background shows a forest in a
fully immersive space.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/96cb708d391f1ab78a77d23c7f2e0442/gestures-
home-indicator-in-immersive-space%402x.png)Default behavior in a Full Space

![An image of a person's open hand wearing a bulky space suit glove, shown
from the person's perspective. The palm faces upward, and no button appears
above it. The image background shows a starry sky in a fully immersive
space.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/b978fe99b00df892890e1d194f704a83/gestures-
fully-immersive-game-with-glove%402x.png)Deferred behavior in a Full Space

Note

Apps and games that you built for visionOS 1 defer the system overlay behavior
by default. When a person looks at their palm with your app running in a Full
Space, the Home indicator won’t appear unless they tap first.

**Use caution when designing custom gestures that involve a rolling motion of
the hand, wrist, and forearm.** This specific motion is reserved for revealing
system overlays. Since system overlays always display on top of app content
and your app isn’t aware of when they’re visible, it’s important to test any
custom gestures or content that might conflict.

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#watchOS)

#### [Double tap](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Double-tap)

In watchOS 11 and later, people can use the double-tap gesture to scroll
through lists and scroll views, and to advance between vertical tab views.
Additionally, you can specify a toggle or button as the primary action in your
app, or in your widget or Live Activity when the system displays it in the
Smart Stack. Double-tapping in a view with a primary action highlights the
control and then performs the action. The system also supports double tap for
custom actions that you offer in [notifications](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/notifications), where it acts on the first nondestructive action in
the notification.

**Avoid setting a primary action in views with lists, scroll views, or
vertical tabs.** This conflicts with the default navigation behaviors that
people expect when they double-tap.

**Choose the button that people use most commonly as the primary action in a
view.** Double tap is helpful in a nonscrolling view when it performs the
action that people use the most. For example, in a media controls view, you
could assign the primary action to the play/pause button. For developer
guidance, see
[`handGestureShortcut(_:isEnabled:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/handGestureShortcut\(_:isEnabled:\))
and
[`primaryAction`](/documentation/SwiftUI/HandGestureShortcut/primaryAction).

## [Specifications](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/gestures#Specifications)

### [Standard gestures](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Standard-
gestures)

The system provides APIs that support the familiar gestures people use with
their devices, whether they use a touchscreen, an indirect gesture in
visionOS, or an input device like a trackpad, mouse, remote, or game
controller. For developer guidance, see
[Gestures](/documentation/SwiftUI/Gestures).

Gesture| Supported in| Common action  
---|---|---  
Tap| iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS, watchOS| Activate a control; select
an item.  
Swipe| iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS, watchOS| Reveal actions and
controls; dismiss views; scroll.  
Drag| iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS, watchOS| Move a UI element.  
Touch (or pinch) and hold| iOS, iPadOS, tvOS, visionOS, watchOS| Reveal
additional controls or functionality.  
Double tap| iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS, watchOS| Zoom in; zoom out if
already zoomed in; perform a primary action on Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple
Watch Ultra 2.  
Zoom| iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS| Zoom a view; magnify content.  
Rotate| iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS| Rotate a selected item.  
  
For guidance on supporting additional gestures and button presses on specific
input devices, see [Pointing devices](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/pointing-devices), [Remotes](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/remotes), and [Game controls](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/game-controls).

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Related)

[Feedback](/design/human-interface-guidelines/feedback)

[Eyes](/design/human-interface-guidelines/eyes)

[Playing haptics](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/gestures#Developer-documentation)

[Gestures](/documentation/SwiftUI/Gestures) — SwiftUI

[`UITouch`](/documentation/UIKit/UITouch) — UIKit

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/B38CC217-7635-48EF-B8C9-F7954F390CCE/9273_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Enhance your UI animations and transitions
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10145)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/D35E0E85-CCB6-41A1-B227-7995ECD83ED5/C6CDCC79-CCD0-4D2F-A4D1-8FC70DC663DB/8127_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Design for spatial input
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10073)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
September 9, 2024| Added guidance for working with system overlays in visionOS
and made organizational updates.  
September 15, 2023| Updated specifications to include double tap in watchOS.  
June 21, 2023| Changed page title from Touchscreen gestures and updated to
include guidance for visionOS.

