# Home Screen quick actions

Home Screen quick actions give people a way to perform app-specific actions
from the Home Screen.

People can get a menu of available quick actions when they touch and hold an
app icon (on a 3D Touch device, people can press on the icon with increased
pressure to see the menu). For example, Mail includes quick actions that open
the Inbox or the VIP mailbox, initiate a search, and create a new message. In
addition to app-specific actions, a Home Screen quick action menu also lists
items for removing the app and editing the Home Screen.

Each Home Screen quick action includes a title, an interface icon on the left
or right (depending on your app’s position on the Home Screen), and an
optional subtitle. The title and subtitle are always left-aligned in left-to-
right languages. Your app can even dynamically update its quick actions when
new information is available. For example, Messages provides quick actions for
opening your most recent conversations.

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/home-screen-quick-
actions#Best-practices)

**Create quick actions for compelling, high-value tasks.** For example, Maps
lets people search near their current location or get directions home without
first opening the Maps app. People tend to expect every app to provide at
least one useful quick action; you can provide a total of four.

**Avoid making unpredictable changes to quick actions.** Dynamic quick actions
are a great way to keep actions relevant. For example, it may make sense to
update quick actions based on the current location or recent activities in
your app, time of day, or changes in settings. Make sure that actions change
in ways that people can predict.

**For each quick action, provide a succinct title that instantly communicates
the results of the action.** For example, titles like “Directions Home,”
“Create New Contact,” and “New Message” can help people understand what
happens when they choose the action. If you need to give more context, provide
a subtitle too. Mail uses subtitles to indicate whether there are unread
messages in the Inbox and VIP folder. Don’t include your app name or any
extraneous information in the title or subtitle, keep the text short to avoid
truncation, and take localization into account as you write the text.

**Provide a familiar interface icon for each quick action.** Prefer using [SF
Symbols](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sf-symbols) to represent actions.
For a list of icons that represent common actions, see [Standard
icons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/icons#Standard-icons); for
additional guidance, see [Menus](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus).

If you design your own interface icon, use the Quick Action Icon Template
that’s included with [Apple Design Resources for iOS and
iPadOS](https://developer.apple.com/design/resources/#ios-apps).

**Don’t use an emoji in place of a symbol or interface icon.** Emojis are full
color, whereas quick action symbols are monochromatic and change appearance in
Dark Mode to maintain contrast.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/home-screen-
quick-actions#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS or iPadOS. Not supported in macOS,
tvOS, visionOS, or watchOS._

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/home-screen-quick-
actions#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/home-screen-quick-
actions#Related)

[Menus](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/home-screen-
quick-actions#Developer-documentation)

[Add Home Screen quick actions](/documentation/UIKit/add-home-screen-quick-
actions) — UIKit

