# iMessage apps and stickers

An iMessage app can help people share content, collaborate, and even play
games with others in a conversation; stickers are images that people can use
to decorate a conversation.

An iMessage app or sticker pack is available within the context of a Messages
conversation and also in effects in both Messages and FaceTime. You can create
an iMessage app or sticker pack as a standalone app or as an app extension
within your iOS or iPadOS app. For developer guidance, see
[Messages](/documentation/Messages) and [Adding Sticker packs and iMessage
apps to the system Stickers app, Messages camera, and
FaceTime](/documentation/Messages/adding-sticker-packs-and-imessage-apps-to-
the-system-stickers-app-messages-camera-and-facetime).

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-and-
stickers#Best-practices)

**Prefer providing one primary experience in your iMessage app.** People are
in a conversational flow when they choose your app, so your functionality or
content needs to be easy to understand and immediately available. If you want
to provide multiple types of functionality or different collections of
content, consider creating a separate iMessage app for each one.

**Consider surfacing content from your iOS or iPadOS app.** For example, your
iMessage app could offer app-specific information that people might want to
share — such as a shopping list or a trip itinerary — or support a simple,
collaborative task, like deciding where to go for a meal or which movie to
watch.

**Present essential features in the compact view.** People can experience your
iMessage app in a compact view that appears below the message transcript, or
they can expand the view to occupy most of the window. Make sure the most
frequently used items are available in the compact view, reserving additional
content and features for the expanded view.

**In general, let people edit text only in the expanded view.** The compact
view occupies roughly the same space as the keyboard. To ensure that the
iMessage app’s content remains visible while people edit, display the keyboard
in the expanded view.

**Create stickers that are expressive, inclusive, and versatile.** Whether
your stickers are rich, static images or short animations, make sure that each
one remains legible against a wide range of backgrounds and when rotated or
scaled. You can also use transparency to help people visually integrate a
sticker with text, photos, and other stickers.

**For each sticker, provide a localized alternative description.** VoiceOver
can help people use your sticker pack by speaking a sticker’s alternative
description.

## [Specifications](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-and-
stickers#Specifications)

### [Icon sizes](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-and-
stickers#Icon-sizes)

The icon for an iMessage app or sticker pack can appear in Messages, the App
Store, notifications, and Settings. After people install your iMessage app or
sticker pack, its icon also appears in the app drawer in the Messages app.

You supply a square-cornered icon for each extension you offer, and the system
automatically applies a mask that rounds the corners.

To ensure that your icon looks great in any context and on various devices,
create a square-cornered icon in the following sizes:

Usage| @2x (pixels)| @3x (pixels)  
---|---|---  
Messages, notifications| 148x110| -  
| 143x100| -  
| 120x90| 180x135  
| 64x48| 96x72  
| 54x40| 81x60  
Settings| 58x58| 87x87  
App Store| 1024x1024| 1024x1024  
  
### [Sticker sizes](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-and-
stickers#Sticker-sizes)

Messages supports small, regular, and large stickers. Pick the size that works
best for your content and prepare all of your stickers at that size; don’t mix
sizes within a single sticker pack. Messages displays stickers in a grid,
organized differently for different sizes.

Small

Regular

Large

Create your sticker images using the following @3x dimensions for the sticker
size you chose. If necessary, the system generates @2x and @1x versions by
downscaling the images at runtime. For developer guidance, see
[`MSStickerSize`](/documentation/Messages/MSStickerSize).

Sticker size| @3x dimensions (pixels)  
---|---  
Small| 300x300  
Regular| 408x408  
Large| 618x618  
  
A sticker file must be 500 KB or smaller in size. For each supported format,
the table below provides guidance for using transparency and animation.

Format| Transparency| Animation  
---|---|---  
PNG| 8-bit| No  
APNG| 8-bit| Yes  
GIF| Single-color| Yes  
JPEG| No| No  
  
## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-
and-stickers#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS or iPadOS. Not supported in macOS,
tvOS, visionOS, or watchOS._

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-and-
stickers#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-and-
stickers#Related)

[iMessage Apps and Stickers](https://developer.apple.com/imessage/)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-
apps-and-stickers#Developer-documentation)

[Messages](/documentation/Messages)

[Adding Sticker packs and iMessage apps to the system Stickers app, Messages
camera, and FaceTime](/documentation/Messages/adding-sticker-packs-and-
imessage-apps-to-the-system-stickers-app-messages-camera-and-facetime) —
Messages

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-and-
stickers#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/7/FC4A4C67-CCE9-46D5-9376-D071D53B4FB2/1925_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Express Yourself! ](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2017/820)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/imessage-apps-and-
stickers#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
May 2, 2023| Consolidated guidance into one page.

