# Modality

Modality is a design technique that presents content in a separate, dedicated
mode that prevents interaction with the parent view and requires an explicit
action to dismiss.

Presenting content modally can:

  * Ensure that people receive critical information and, if necessary, act on it

  * Provide options that let people confirm or modify their most recent action

  * Help people perform a distinct, narrowly scoped task without losing track of their previous context

  * Give people an immersive experience or help them concentrate on a complex task

Depending on the platform, you might use different components to present these
types of modal experiences. For example, all platforms can present an _alert_
, which is a modal view that delivers important information related to your
app or game. In addition, each platform may define various types of modal
views for presenting context-specific options, such as _activity views,_
_sheets_ , and _confirmation dialogs_ or _action sheets_. To help people
perform a distinct task, iOS, iPadOS, and macOS apps tend to use sheets or
popovers, but iPadOS, macOS, and visionOS apps might also just use a separate
window.

To provide a temporary experience, like viewing media, or to help people
perform a distinct, multistep task, like editing content, apps can offer a
full-screen modal experience. In contrast, apps may also offer nonmodal types
of full-screen experiences; for guidance, see [Going full
screen](/design/human-interface-guidelines/going-full-screen). visionOS apps
can offer a range of immersive experiences; for guidance, see [Immersive
experiences](/design/human-interface-guidelines/immersive-experiences).

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/modality#Best-
practices)

**Present content modally only when there’s a clear benefit.** A modal
experience takes people out of their current context and requires an action to
dismiss, so it’s important to use modality only when it helps people focus or
make choices that affect their content or device.

**Aim to keep modal tasks simple, short, and streamlined.** If a modal task is
too complicated, people can lose track of the task they suspended when they
entered the modal view, especially if the modal view obscures their previous
context.

**Take care to avoid creating a modal experience that feels like an app within
your app.** In particular, presenting a hierarchy of views within a modal task
can make people forget how to retrace their steps. If a modal task must
contain subviews, provide a single path through the hierarchy and avoid
including buttons that people might mistake for the button that dismisses the
modal view.

**Consider using a full-screen modal style for in-depth content or a complex
task.** A modal experience that fills a window or the device display minimizes
distractions, so it can work well for presenting videos, photos, or camera
views, or to support a multistep task like marking up a document or editing a
photo. When a visionOS app runs alongside other apps in the Shared Space, a
full-screen modal presentation fills a window; if people transition the app to
a Full Space, the full-screen modal presentation can become a more immersive
experience.

**Always give people an obvious way to dismiss a modal view.** In general, it
works well to follow the platform conventions people already know. For
example, in iOS, iPadOS, and watchOS apps, people typically expect to find a
button in the top toolbar or swipe down; in macOS and tvOS apps, people expect
to find a button in the main content view.

**When necessary, help people avoid data loss by getting confirmation before
closing a modal view.** Regardless of whether people use a dismiss gesture or
a button, if closing the view could result in the loss of user-generated
content, be sure to explain the situation and give people ways to resolve it.
For example, in iOS, you might present an action sheet that includes a save
option.

**Make it easy to identify a modal view’s task.** When people enter a modal
view, they switch away from their previous context and might not return to it
right away. When you provide a title that names the modal view’s task — or
additional text that describes the task or provides guidance — you can help
people keep their place in your app.

**Let people dismiss a modal view before presenting another one.** Allowing
multiple modal views to be visible at the same time tends to create visual
clutter and can make your app seem scattered and disorganized. People need to
remember the context they were in before a modal view appears, so presenting
multiple views adds to people’s cognitive load, especially when a modal view
hides another one by appearing on top of it. Although an alert can appear on
top of all other content — including other modal views — you never want to
display more than one alert at the same time.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/modality#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS, or
watchOS._

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/modality#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/modality#Related)

[Sheets](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sheets)

[Alerts](/design/human-interface-guidelines/alerts)

[Popovers](/design/human-interface-guidelines/popovers)

[Action sheets](/design/human-interface-guidelines/action-sheets)

[Activity views](/design/human-interface-guidelines/activity-views)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/modality#Developer-documentation)

[Presentation modifiers](/documentation/SwiftUI/View-Presentation) — SwiftUI

[`UIModalPresentationStyle`](/documentation/UIKit/UIModalPresentationStyle) —
UIKit

[Modal Windows and Panels](/documentation/AppKit/modal-windows-and-panels) —
AppKit

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/modality#Videos)

[ Get to know the new design system
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/356)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/modality#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
December 5, 2023| Enhanced guidance for in-depth modal experiences and
clarified guidance on multiple modal views.  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.

