September 9, 2025

Added guidance for Liquid Glass.

# Motion

Beautiful, fluid motions bring the interface to life, conveying status,
providing feedback and instruction, and enriching the visual experience of
your app or game.

Many system components automatically include motion, letting you offer
familiar and consistent experiences throughout your app or game. System
components might also adjust their motion in response to factors like
accessibility settings or different input methods. For example, the movement
of [Liquid Glass](/design/human-interface-guidelines/materials#Liquid-Glass)
responds to direct touch interaction with greater emphasis to reinforce the
feeling of a tactile experience, but produces a more subdued effect when a
person interacts using a trackpad.

If you design custom motion, follow the guidelines below.

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/motion#Best-practices)

**Add motion purposefully, supporting the experience without overshadowing
it.** Don’t add motion for the sake of adding motion. Gratuitous or excessive
animation can distract people and may make them feel disconnected or
physically uncomfortable.

**Make motion optional.** Not everyone can or wants to experience the motion
in your app or game, so it’s essential to avoid using it as the only way to
communicate important information. To help everyone enjoy your app or game,
supplement visual feedback by also using alternatives like
[haptics](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-
guidelines/playing-haptics) and
[audio](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-
audio) to communicate.

## [Providing feedback](/design/human-interface-guidelines/motion#Providing-
feedback)

**Strive for realistic feedback motion that follows people’s gestures and
expectations.** In nongame apps, accurate, realistic motion can help people
understand how something works, but feedback motion that doesn’t make sense
can make them feel disoriented. For example, if someone reveals a view by
sliding it down from the top, they don’t expect to dismiss the view by sliding
it to the side.

**Aim for brevity and precision in feedback animations.** When animated
feedback is brief and precise, it tends to feel lightweight and unobtrusive,
and it can often convey information more effectively than prominent animation.
For example, when a game displays a succinct animation that’s precisely tied
to a successful action, players can instantly get the message without being
distracted from their gameplay. Another example is in visionOS: When people
tap a panorama in Photos, it quickly and smoothly expands to fill the space in
front of them, helping them track the transition without making them wait to
enjoy the content.

**In apps, generally avoid adding motion to UI interactions that occur
frequently.** The system already provides subtle animations for interactions
with standard interface elements. For a custom element, you generally want to
avoid making people spend extra time paying attention to unnecessary motion
every time they interact with it.

**Let people cancel motion.** As much as possible, don’t make people wait for
an animation to complete before they can do anything, especially if they have
to experience the animation more than once.

**Consider using animated symbols where it makes sense.** When you use SF
Symbols 5 or later, you can apply animations to SF Symbols or custom symbols.
For guidance, see [Animations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sf-
symbols#Animations).

## [Leveraging platform capabilities](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/motion#Leveraging-platform-capabilities)

**Make sure your game’s motion looks great by default on each platform you
support.** In most games, maintaining a consistent frame rate of 30 to 60 fps
typically results in a smooth, visually appealing experience. For each
platform you support, use the device’s graphics capabilities to enable default
settings that let people enjoy your game without first having to change those
settings.

**Let people customize the visual experience of your game to optimize
performance or battery life.** For example, consider letting people switch
between power modes when the system detects the presence of an external power
source.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/motion#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS, iPadOS, macOS, or tvOS._

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/motion#visionOS)

In addition to subtly communicating context, drawing attention to information,
and enriching immersive experiences, motion in visionOS can combine with
[depth](/design/human-interface-guidelines/spatial-layout#Depth) to provide
essential feedback when people look at interactive elements. Because motion is
likely to be a large part of your visionOS experience, it’s crucial to avoid
causing distraction, confusion, or discomfort.

**As much as possible, avoid displaying motion at the edges of a person’s
field of view.** People can be particularly sensitive to motion that occurs in
their peripheral vision: in addition to being distracting, such motion can
even cause discomfort because it can make people feel like they or their
surroundings are moving. If you need to show an object moving in the periphery
during an immersive experience, make sure the object’s brightness level is
similar to the rest of the visible content.

**Help people remain comfortable when showing the movement of large virtual
objects.** If an object is large enough to fill a lot of the [field of
view](/design/human-interface-guidelines/spatial-layout#Field-of-view),
occluding most or all of [passthrough](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/immersive-experiences#Immersion-and-passthrough), people can
naturally perceive it as being part of their surroundings. To help people
perceive the object’s movement without making them think that they or their
surroundings are moving, you can increase the object’s translucency, helping
people see through it, or lower its contrast to make its motion less
noticeable.

Note

People can experience discomfort even when they’re the ones moving a large
virtual object, such as a window. Although adjusting translucency and contrast
can help in this scenario, consider also keeping a window’s size fairly small.

**Consider using fades when you need to relocate an object.** When an object
moves from one location to another, people naturally watch the movement. If
such movement doesn’t communicate anything useful to people, you can fade the
object out before moving it and fade it back in after it’s in the new
location.

**In general, avoid letting people rotate a virtual world.** When a virtual
world rotates, the experience typically upsets people’s sense of stability,
even when they control the rotation and the movement is subtle. Instead,
consider using instantaneous directional changes during a quick fade-out.

**Consider giving people a stationary frame of reference.** It can be easier
for people to handle visual movement when it’s contained within an area that
doesn’t move. In contrast, if the entire surrounding area appears to move —
for example, in a game that automatically moves a player through space —
people can feel unwell.

**Avoid showing objects that oscillate in a sustained way.** In particular,
you want to avoid showing an oscillation that has a frequency of around 0.2 Hz
because people can be very sensitive to this frequency. If you need to show
objects oscillating, aim to keep the amplitude low and consider making the
content translucent.

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/motion#watchOS)

SwiftUI provides a powerful and streamlined way to add motion to your app. If
you need to use WatchKit to animate layout and appearance changes — or create
animated image sequences — see
[`WKInterfaceImage`](/documentation/WatchKit/WKInterfaceImage).

Note

All layout- and appearance-based animations automatically include built-in
easing that plays at the start and end of the animation. You can’t turn off or
customize easing.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/motion#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/motion#Related)

[Feedback](/design/human-interface-guidelines/feedback)

[Accessibility](https://www.apple.com/accessibility/)

[Spatial layout](/design/human-interface-guidelines/spatial-layout)

[Immersive experiences](/design/human-interface-guidelines/immersive-
experiences)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/motion#Developer-documentation)

[Animating views and transitions](/tutorials/SwiftUI/animating-views-and-
transitions) — SwiftUI

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/motion#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/B38CC217-7635-48EF-B8C9-F7954F390CCE/9273_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Enhance your UI animations and transitions
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10145)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/A8C0D750-CF09-48F3-982B-0D1B870F273F/9279_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Create custom visual effects with SwiftUI
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10151)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/D35E0E85-CCB6-41A1-B227-7995ECD83ED5/2C47B638-090D-4CBB-9E9E-EBE8114536D9/8132_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Design considerations for vision and motion
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10078)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/motion#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
September 9, 2025| Added guidance for Liquid Glass.  
June 10, 2024| Added game-specific examples and enhanced guidance for using
motion in games.  
February 2, 2024| Enhanced guidance for minimizing peripheral motion in
visionOS apps.  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.

