# Toolbars

A toolbar provides convenient access to frequently used commands, controls,
navigation, and search.

A toolbar consists of one or more sets of controls arranged horizontally along
the top or bottom edge of the view, grouped into logical sections.

Toolbars act on content in the view, facilitate navigation, and help orient
people in the app. They include three types of content:

  * The title of the current view

  * Navigation controls, like back and forward, and [search fields](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields)

  * Actions, or bar items, like [buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons) and [menus](/design/human-interface-guidelines/menus)

In contrast to a toolbar, a [tab bar](/design/human-interface-guidelines/tab-
bars) is specifically for navigating between areas of an app.

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Best-
practices)

**Choose items deliberately to avoid overcrowding.** People need to be able to
distinguish and activate each item, so you don’t want to put too many items in
the toolbar. To accommodate variable view widths, define which items move to
the overflow menu as the toolbar becomes narrower.

Note

The system automatically adds an overflow menu in macOS or iPadOS when items
no longer fit. Don’t add an overflow menu manually, and avoid layouts that
cause toolbar items to overflow by default.

**Add a More menu to contain additional actions.** Prioritize less important
actions for inclusion in the More menu. Try to include all actions in the
toolbar if possible, and only add this menu if you really need it.

  * Standard 
  * Compact 

The standard toolbar in macOS Notes includes a More menu with extra commands.

![A screenshot of the Notes app on Mac, with the window narrow enough that the
system moves several items from the toolbar into an overflow menu, including
the More menu button. The overflow menu is open to show the items it
includes.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/d946d1a2815b1a181b0cd090e536cb21/toolbars-
notes-app-collapsed-icons%402x.png)As the window narrows, the More menu moves
into an overflow menu along with other toolbar items that no longer fit.

**In iPadOS and macOS apps, consider letting people customize the toolbar to
include their most common items.** Toolbar customization is especially useful
in apps that provide a lot of items — or that include advanced functionality
that not everyone needs — and in apps that people tend to use for long periods
of time. For example, it works well to make a range of editing actions
available for toolbar customization, because people often use different types
of editing commands based on their work style and their current project.

**Reduce the use of toolbar backgrounds and tinted controls.** Any custom
backgrounds and appearances you use might overlay or interfere with background
effects that the system provides. Instead, use the content layer to inform the
color and appearance of the toolbar, and use a
[`ScrollEdgeEffectStyle`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ScrollEdgeEffectStyle) when
necessary to distinguish the toolbar area from the content area. This approach
helps your app express its unique personality without distracting from
content.

**Prefer using standard components in a toolbar.** By default, standard
buttons, text fields, headers, and footers have corner radii that are
concentric with bar corners. If you need to create a custom component, ensure
that its corner radius is also concentric with the bar’s corners.

**Avoid using a segmented control in a toolbar.** Segmented controls let
people switch contexts, whereas a toolbar’s actions are specific to the
current view. For guidance, see [Segmented controls](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/segmented-controls).

**Consider temporarily hiding toolbars for a distraction-free experience.**
Sometimes people appreciate a minimal interface to reduce distractions or
reveal more content. If you support this, do so contextually when it makes the
most sense, and offer ways to reliably restore hidden interface elements. For
guidance, see [Going full screen](/design/human-interface-guidelines/going-
full-screen). For guidance specific to visionOS, see [Immersive
experiences](/design/human-interface-guidelines/immersive-experiences).

## [Titles](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Titles)

**Provide a useful title for each window.** A title helps people confirm their
location as they navigate your app, and differentiates between the content of
multiple open windows. If titling a toolbar seems redundant, you can leave the
title area empty. For example, Notes doesn’t title the current note when a
single window is open, because the first line of content typically supplies
sufficient context. However, when opening notes in separate windows, the
system titles them with the first line of content so people can tell them
apart.

**Don’t title windows with your app name.** Your app’s name doesn’t provide
useful information about your content hierarchy or any window or area in your
app, so it doesn’t work well as a title.

**Write a concise title.** Aim for a word or short phrase that distills the
purpose of the window or view, and keep the title under 15 characters long so
you leave enough room for other controls.

## [Navigation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Navigation)

A toolbar with navigation controls appears at the top of a window, helping
people move through a hierarchy of content. A toolbar also often contains a
[search field](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields) for quick
navigation between areas or pieces of content. In iOS, a navigation-specific
toolbar is sometimes called a navigation bar.

**Use the standard Back and Close buttons.** People know that the standard
Back button lets them retrace their steps through a hierarchy of information,
and the standard Close button closes a modal view. Prefer the standard symbols
for each, and don’t use a text label that says _Back_ or _Close_. If you
create a custom version of either, make sure it still looks the same, behaves
as people expect, and matches the rest of your interface, and ensure you
consistently implement it throughout your app or game. For guidance, see
[Icons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/icons).

## [Actions](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Actions)

**Provide actions that support the main tasks people perform.** In general,
prioritize the commands that people are most likely to want. These commands
are often the ones people use most frequently, but in some apps it might make
sense to prioritize commands that map to the highest level or most important
objects people work with.

**Make sure the meaning of each control is clear.** Don’t make people guess or
experiment to figure out what a toolbar item does. Prefer simple, recognizable
symbols for items instead of text, except for actions like _edit_ that aren’t
well-represented by symbols. For guidance on symbols that represent common
actions, see [Standard icons](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/icons#Standard-icons).

**Prefer system-provided symbols without borders.** System-provided symbols
are familiar, automatically receive appropriate coloring and vibrancy, and
respond consistently to user interactions. Borders (like outlined circle
symbols) aren’t necessary because the section provides a visible container,
and the system defines hover and selection state appearances automatically.
For guidance, see [SF Symbols](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sf-symbols).

**Use the`.prominent` style for key actions such as Done or Submit.** This
separates and tints the action so there’s a clear focal point. Only specify
one primary action, and put it on the trailing side of the toolbar.

![An illustration of two toolbar items, with a Filter button on the leading
side and a Done button on the trailing side. The buttons are ungrouped, and
the Done button has the prominent style applied to indicate that it's the
primary action.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/36c552c629c8a980c83501134e53d749/toolbars-
prominent-action-tinted%402x.png)

## [Item groupings](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Item-
groupings)

You can position toolbar items in three locations: the leading edge, center
area, and trailing edge of the toolbar. These areas provide familiar homes for
navigation controls, window or document titles, common actions, and search.

  * **Leading edge.** Elements that let people return to the previous document and show or hide a sidebar appear at the far leading edge, followed by the view title. Next to the title, the toolbar can include a document menu that contains standard and app-specific commands that affect the document as a whole, such as Duplicate, Rename, Move, and Export. To ensure that these items are always available, items on the toolbar’s leading edge aren’t customizable.

  * **Center area.** Common, useful controls appear in the center area, and the view title can appear here if it’s not on the leading edge. In macOS and iPadOS, people can add, remove, and rearrange items here if you let them customize the toolbar, and items in this section automatically collapse into the system-managed overflow menu when the window shrinks enough in size.

  * **Trailing edge.** The trailing edge contains important items that need to remain available, buttons that open nearby inspectors, an optional search field, and the More menu that contains additional items and supports toolbar customization. It also includes a primary action like Done when one exists. Items on the trailing edge remain visible at all window sizes.

![A diagram of the top toolbar in the Freeform app on iPad. Callouts indicate
the location of item groupings on the leading edge, center area, and trailing
edge of the toolbar.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/882504f8e992b3ce0e373f47523adf5e/toolbars-
ipad-anatomy%402x.png)

To position items in the groupings you want, pin them to the leading edge,
center, or trailing edge, and insert space between buttons or other items
where appropriate.

**Group toolbar items logically by function and frequency of use.** For
example, Keynote includes several sections that are based on functionality,
including one for presentation-level commands, one for playback commands, and
one for object insertion.

**Group navigation controls and critical actions like Done, Close, or Save in
dedicated, familiar, and visually distinct sections.** This reflects their
importance and helps people discover and understand these actions.

![An illustration of a top toolbar on iPhone, with controls for back, forward,
tool selection, and the More menu grouped in a single section on the trailing
edge.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/9349ac4f406f84c24e98a6b9445b9560/toolbars-
layout-grouping-incorrect%402x.png)

![An illustration of a top toolbar on iPhone, with controls for back and
forward grouped on the leading edge, and controls for tool selection and the
More menu grouped on the trailing edge.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/2fede653e14b982c4b2c65f3ca657278/toolbars-
layout-grouping-correct%402x.png)

**Keep consistent groupings and placement across platforms.** This helps
people develop familiarity with your app and trust that it behaves similarly
regardless of where they use it.

**Minimize the number of groups.** Too many groups of controls can make a
toolbar feel cluttered and confusing, even with the added space on iPad and
Mac. In general, aim for a maximum of three.

**Keep actions with text labels separate.** Placing an action with a text
label next to an action with a symbol can create the illusion of a single
action with a combined text and symbol, leading to confusion and
misinterpretation. If your toolbar includes multiple text-labeled buttons, the
text of those buttons may appear to run together, making the buttons
indistinguishable. Add separation by inserting fixed space between the
buttons. For developer guidance, see
[`UIBarButtonItem.SystemItem.fixedSpace`](/documentation/UIKit/UIBarButtonItem/SystemItem/fixedSpace).

![An illustration of a top toolbar on iPhone, with an Edit control with a text
label and a Share control with a symbol grouped together on the trailing
edge.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/de7f7298c70900b9c2f65d5cae7c6d60/toolbars-
layout-text-action-grouping-incorrect%402x.png)

![An illustration of a top toolbar on iPhone, with an Edit control with a text
label and a Share control with a symbol grouped into individual sections on
the trailing edge.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/c46f284f584841d7783aa2090426ca9b/toolbars-
layout-text-action-grouping-correct%402x.png)

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/toolbars#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for tvOS._

### [iOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#iOS)

**Prioritize only the most important items for inclusion in the main toolbar
area.** Because space is so limited, carefully consider which actions are
essential to your app and include those first. Create a More menu to include
additional items.

**Use a large title to help people stay oriented as they navigate and
scroll.** By default, a large title transitions to a standard title as people
begin scrolling the content, and transitions back to large when people scroll
to the top, reminding them of their current location. For developer guidance,
see
[`prefersLargeTitles`](/documentation/UIKit/UINavigationBar/prefersLargeTitles).

### [iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#iPadOS)

**Consider combining a toolbar with a tab bar.** In iPadOS, a toolbar and a
[tab bar](/design/human-interface-guidelines/tab-bars) can coexist in the same
horizontal space at the top of the view. This is particularly useful for
layouts where you want to navigate between a few main app areas while keeping
the full width of the window available for content. For guidance, see
[Layout](/design/human-interface-guidelines/layout) and
[Windows](/design/human-interface-guidelines/windows).

### [macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#macOS)

In a macOS app, the toolbar resides in the frame at the top of a window,
either below or integrated with the title bar. Note that window titles can
display inline with controls, and toolbar items don’t include a bezel.

![A diagram of a Finder window in macOS with callouts showing the location of
the toolbar and the window frame.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/a595dda6ba3dd30cbd7c9851d941be72/toolbars-
mac-window-anatomy%402x.png)

**Make every toolbar item available as a command in the menu bar.** Because
people can customize the toolbar or hide it, it can’t be the only place that
presents a command. In contrast, it doesn’t make sense to provide a toolbar
item for every menu item, because not all menu commands are important enough
or used often enough to warrant space in the toolbar.

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#visionOS)

In visionOS, the system-provided toolbar appears along the bottom edge of a
window, above the window-management controls, and in a parallel plane that’s
slightly in front of the window along the z-axis.

![A screenshot of a toolbar along the bottom of the Notes app window in
visionOS.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/47985b0aebd160790502368ff9e282a1/visionos-
toolbar-notes-app%402x.png)

To maintain the legibility of toolbar items as content scrolls behind them,
visionOS uses a variable blur in the bar background. The variable blur anchors
the bar above the scrolling content while letting the view’s glass material
remain uniform and undivided.

In visionOS, you can supply either a symbol or a text label for each toolbar
item. When people look at a toolbar item that contains a symbol, visionOS
reveals the text label, providing additional information.

**Prefer using a system-provided toolbar.** The standard toolbar has a
consistent and familiar appearance and is optimized to work well with eye and
hand input. In addition, the system automatically places a standard toolbar in
the correct position in relation to its window.

![A screenshot of a toolbar in visionOS.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/449acaaf0268d1fff08e9bf41b7c82d9/visionos-
toolbar-standard-layout%402x.png)

**Avoid creating a vertical toolbar.** In visionOS, [tab bars](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/tab-bars) are vertical, so presenting a vertical toolbar
could confuse people.

**Try to prevent windows from resizing below the width of the toolbar.**
visionOS doesn’t include a menu bar where each app lists all its actions, so
it’s important for the toolbar to provide reliable access to essential
controls regardless of a window’s size.

**If your app can enter a modal state, consider offering contextually relevant
toolbar controls.** For example, a photo-editing app might enter a modal state
to help people perform a multistep editing task. In this scenario, the
controls in the modal editing view are different from the controls in the main
window. Be sure to reinstate the window’s standard toolbar controls when the
app exits the modal state.

**Avoid using a pull-down menu in a toolbar.** A pull-down menu lets you offer
additional actions related to a toolbar item, but can be difficult for people
to discover and may clutter your interface. Because a toolbar is located at
the bottom edge of a window in visionOS, a pull-down menu might obscure the
standard window controls that appear below the bottom edge. For guidance, see
[Pull-down buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/pull-down-buttons).

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#watchOS)

A toolbar button lets you offer important app functionality in a view that
displays related content. You can place toolbar buttons in the top corners or
along the bottom. If you place these buttons above scrolling content, the
buttons always remain visible, as the content scrolls under them.

![A screenshot showing toolbar buttons in the top leading and trailing
corners.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/464c7be02e97dcb7470c9b8202dc2b59/toolbars-
watch-top-buttons%402x.png)

Top toolbar buttons

![A screenshot showing two toolbar buttons in the bottom leading and trailing
corners.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/53d742601fa4b250207336099587e1d3/toolbars-
watch-bottom-buttons%402x.png)

Bottom toolbar buttons

For developer guidance, see
[`topBarLeading`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ToolbarItemPlacement/topBarLeading),
[`topBarTrailing`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ToolbarItemPlacement/topBarTrailing),
or [`bottomBar`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ToolbarItemPlacement/bottomBar).

You can also place a button in the scrolling view. By default, a scrolling
toolbar button remains hidden until people reveal it by scrolling up. People
frequently scroll to the top of a scrolling view, so discovering a toolbar
button is automatic.

![A screenshot showing two toolbar buttons in the top leading and trailing
corners. The toolbar also has a primary action button in the scroll view, but
it's hidden.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/027a24ac805a9e7976a1ccd1df68f0d3/toolbars-
watch-primary-button-hidden%402x.png)

Toolbar button hidden

![A screenshot showing two toolbar buttons in the top leading and trailing
corners. The toolbar also displays a primary action button in the scroll
view.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/e010a0cdf42f792ebb4715cdd5f65676/toolbars-
watch-primary-button-visible%402x.png)

Toolbar button shown

For developer guidance, see
[`primaryAction`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ToolbarItemPlacement/primaryAction).

**Use a scrolling toolbar button for an important action that isn’t a primary
app function.** A toolbar button gives you the flexibility to offer important
functionality in a view whose primary purpose is related to that
functionality, but may not be the same. For example, Mail provides the
essential New Message action in a toolbar button at the top of the Inbox view.
The primary purpose of the Inbox is to display a scrollable list of email
messages, so it makes sense to offer the closely related compose action in a
toolbar button at the top of the view.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Related)

[Sidebars](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sidebars)

[Tab bars](/design/human-interface-guidelines/tab-bars)

[Layout](/design/human-interface-guidelines/layout)

[Buttons](/design/human-interface-guidelines/buttons)

[Search fields](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields)

[Apple Design Resources](https://developer.apple.com/design/resources/)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/toolbars#Developer-documentation)

[Toolbars](/documentation/SwiftUI/Toolbars) — SwiftUI

[`UIToolbar`](/documentation/UIKit/UIToolbar) — UIKit

[`NSToolbar`](/documentation/AppKit/NSToolbar) — AppKit

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/1AAA030E-2ECA-47D8-AE09-6D7B72A840F6/10044_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Get to know the new design system
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/356)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 9, 2025| Added guidance for grouping bar items, updated guidance for
using symbols, and incorporated navigation bar guidance.  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.  
June 5, 2023| Updated guidance for using toolbars in watchOS.

