# NFC

Near-field communication (NFC) allows devices within a few centimeters of each
other to exchange information wirelessly.

iOS apps running on supported devices can use NFC scanning to read data from
electronic tags attached to real-world objects. For example, a person can scan
a toy to connect it with a video game, a shopper can scan an in-store sign to
access coupons, or a retail employee can scan products to track inventory.

## [In-app tag reading](/design/human-interface-guidelines/nfc#In-app-tag-
reading)

An app can support single- or multiple-object scanning when the app is active,
and display a scanning sheet whenever people are about to scan something.

**Don’t encourage people to make contact with physical objects.** To scan a
tag, an iOS device must simply be within close proximity of the tag. It
doesn’t need to actually touch the tag. Use terms like _scan_ and _hold near_
instead of _tap_ and _touch_ when asking people to scan objects.

**Use approachable terminology.** Near-field communication may be unfamiliar
to some people. To make it approachable, avoid referring to technical,
developer-oriented terms like _NFC_ , _Core NFC_ , _Near-field communication_
, and _tag_. Instead, use friendly, conversational terms that most people will
understand.

Use| Don’t use  
---|---  
Scan the [_object name_].| Scan the NFC tag.  
Hold your iPhone near the [_object name_] to learn more about it.| To use NFC
scanning, tap your phone to the [_object_].  
  
**Provide succinct instructional text for the scanning sheet.** Provide a
complete sentence, in sentence case, with ending punctuation. Identify the
object to scan, and revise the text appropriately for subsequent scans. Keep
the text short to avoid truncation.

First scan| Subsequent scans  
---|---  
Hold your iPhone near the [_object name_] to learn more about it.| Now hold
your iPhone near another [_object name_].  
  
## [Background tag reading](/design/human-interface-guidelines/nfc#Background-
tag-reading)

Background tag reading lets people scan tags quickly any time, without needing
to first open your app and initiate scanning. On devices that support
background tag reading, the system automatically looks for nearby compatible
tags whenever the screen is illuminated. After detecting and matching a tag
with an app, the system shows a notification that the people can tap to send
the tag data to the app for processing. Note that background reading isn’t
available when an NFC scanning sheet is visible, Wallet or Apple Pay are in
use, cameras are in use, the device is in Airplane Mode, and the device is
locked after a restart.

**Support both background and in-app tag reading.** Your app must still
provide an in-app way to scan tags, for people with devices that don’t support
background tag reading.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/nfc#Platform-
considerations)

 _No additional considerations for iOS or iPadOS. Not supported in macOS,
tvOS, visionOS, or watchOS._

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/nfc#Resources)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/nfc#Developer-documentation)

[Core NFC](/documentation/CoreNFC)

