# Playing haptics

Playing haptics can engage people’s sense of touch and bring their familiarity
with the physical world into your app or game.

Depending on the platform and the device people are using, the system can play
haptics in addition to visual and auditory feedback. For example, components
like switches, sliders, and pickers automatically play haptic feedback on
supported iPhone models; on Apple Watch, the Taptic Engine generates haptics
for a number of built-in feedback patterns, which watchOS combines with an
audible tone. On a Mac that’s equipped with a Force Touch trackpad, an app can
play haptics while people drag content or when they force click to change the
speed of media controls.

In addition to built-in haptic capabilities, some external input devices can
also play haptics. For example:

  * In an iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, or visionOS app or game, [game controllers](/design/human-interface-guidelines/game-controls) can provide haptic feedback (for developer guidance, see [Playing Haptics on Game Controllers](/documentation/CoreHaptics/playing-haptics-on-game-controllers)).

  * [Apple Pencil Pro](/design/human-interface-guidelines/apple-pencil-and-scribble) and some trackpads can provide haptic feedback when connected to certain iPad models. (For details on Apple Pencil features and compatibility, see [Apple Pencil](https://www.apple.com/apple-pencil/).)

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Best-
practices)

**Use system-provided haptic patterns according to their documented
meanings.** People recognize standard haptics because the system plays them
consistently on interactions with standard controls. If the documented use
case for a pattern doesn’t make sense in your app or game, avoid using the
pattern to mean something else. Instead, use a generic pattern or create your
own, where supported. For guidance, see [Custom haptics](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Custom-haptics).

**Use haptics consistently throughout your app or game.** It’s important to
build a clear, causal relationship between each haptic and the action that
causes it so people learn to associate certain haptic patterns with certain
experiences. If a haptic doesn’t reinforce a cause-and-effect relationship, it
can be confusing and seem gratuitous. For example, if your game plays a
specific haptic pattern when a character fails to finish a mission, people
associate that pattern with a negative outcome. If you use the same haptic
pattern for a positive outcome like a level completion, people will be
confused.

**Prefer using haptics to complement other feedback in your app or game.**
When visual, auditory, and tactile feedback are in harmony — as they generally
are in the physical world — the user experience is more coherent and can seem
more natural. For example, you generally want to match the intensity and
sharpness of a haptic with the intensity and sharpness of the animation it
accompanies. You can also synchronize sound with haptics; for developer
guidance, see [Delivering Rich App Experiences with
Haptics](/documentation/CoreHaptics/delivering-rich-app-experiences-with-
haptics).

**Avoid overusing haptics.** Sometimes a haptic can feel just right when it
happens occasionally, but become tiresome when it plays frequently. Doing user
testing can help you discover a balance that most people appreciate. Often,
the best haptic experience is one that people may not be conscious of, but
miss when it’s turned off.

**In most apps, prefer playing short haptics that complement discrete
events.** Although long-running haptics that accompany a gameplay flow can
enhance the experience, long-running haptics in an app can dilute the meaning
of the feedback and distract people from their task. On Apple Pencil Pro, for
example, continuous or long-lasting haptics don’t tend to clarify the writing
or drawing experience and can even make holding the pencil less pleasant.

**Make haptics optional.** Let people turn off or mute haptics, and make sure
people can still enjoy your app or game without them.

**Be aware that playing haptics might impact other user experiences.** By
design, haptics produce enough physical force for people to feel the
vibration. Ensure that haptic vibrations don’t disrupt experiences involving
device features like the camera, gyroscope, or microphone.

## [Custom haptics](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Custom-
haptics)

Games often use custom haptics to enhance gameplay. Although it’s less common,
nongame apps might also use custom haptics to provide a richer, more
delightful experience.

You can design custom haptic patterns that vary dynamically, based on user
input or context. For example, the impact players feel when a game character
jumps from a tree can be stronger than when the character jumps in place, and
substantial experiences — like a collision or a hit — can feel very different
from subtle experiences like the approach of footsteps or a looming danger.

There are two basic building blocks you can use to generate custom haptic
patterns.

  * _Transient_ events are brief and compact, often feeling like taps or impulses. The experience of tapping the Flashlight button on the Home Screen is an example of a transient event.

  * _Continuous_ events feel like sustained vibrations, such as the experience of the lasers effect in a message.

Regardless of the type of haptic event you use to generate a custom haptic,
you can also control its _sharpness_ and _intensity_. You can think of
sharpness as a way to abstract a haptic experience into the waveform that
produces the corresponding physical sensations. Specifying sharpness lets you
relay to the system your intent for the experience. For example, you might use
sharpness values to convey an experience that’s soft, rounded, or organic, or
one that’s crisp, precise, or mechanical. As the term implies, intensity means
the strength of the haptic.

By combining transient and continuous events, varying sharpness and intensity,
and including optional audio content, you can create a wide range of different
haptic experiences. For developer guidance, see [Core
Haptics](/documentation/CoreHaptics).

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-
haptics#Platform-considerations)

### [iOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#iOS)

On supported iPhone models, you can add haptics to your experience in the
following ways:

  * Use standard UI components — like [toggles](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/toggles), [sliders](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders), and [pickers](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/pickers) — that play Apple-designed system haptics by default.

  * When it makes sense, use a feedback generator to play one of several predefined haptic patterns in the categories of [notification](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Notification), [impact](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Impact), and [selection](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Selection) (for developer guidance, see [`UIFeedbackGenerator`](/documentation/UIKit/UIFeedbackGenerator)).

#### [Notification](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-
haptics#Notification)

Notification haptics provide feedback about the outcome of a task or action,
such as depositing a check or unlocking a vehicle.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a series of two haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing bars of different sizes
and playing audio tones of different pitches. This particular pattern
represents a success.

Play

**Success.** Indicates that a task or action has completed.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a series of two haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing bars of different sizes
and playing audio tones of different pitches. This particular pattern
represents a warning.

Play

**Warning.** Indicates that a task or action has produced a warning of some
kind.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a series of four haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing bars of different sizes
and playing audio tones of different pitches. This particular pattern
represents an error.

Play

**Error.** Indicates that an error has occurred.

#### [Impact](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Impact)

Impact haptics provide a physical metaphor you can use to complement a visual
experience. For example, people might feel a tap when a view snaps into place
or a thud when two heavy objects collide.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a single haptic pulse of a
specific duration and strength by showing a bar of a specific size and playing
an audio tone of a specific pitch. This particular pattern represents a light
impact.

Play

**Light.** Indicates a collision between small or lightweight UI objects.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a single haptic pulse of a
specific duration and strength by showing a bar of a specific size and playing
an audio tone of a specific pitch. This particular pattern represents a medium
impact.

Play

**Medium.** Indicates a collision between medium-sized or medium-weight UI
objects.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a single haptic pulse of a
specific duration and strength by showing a bar of a specific size and playing
an audio tone of a specific pitch. This particular pattern represents a heavy
impact.

Play

**Heavy.** Indicates a collision between large or heavyweight UI objects.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a single haptic pulse of a
specific duration and strength by showing a bar of a specific size and playing
an audio tone of a specific pitch. This particular pattern represents a rigid
impact.

Play

**Rigid.** Indicates a collision between hard or inflexible UI objects.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a single haptic pulse of a
specific duration and strength by showing a bar of a specific size and playing
an audio tone of a specific pitch. This particular pattern represents a soft
impact.

Play

**Soft.** Indicates a collision between soft or flexible UI objects.

#### [Selection](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Selection)

Selection haptics provide feedback while the values of a UI element are
changing.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents a single haptic pulse of a
specific duration and strength by showing a bar of a specific size and playing
an audio tone of a specific pitch. This particular pattern represents a
selection.

Play

**Selection.** Indicates that a UI element’s values are changing.

### [macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#macOS)

When a Magic Trackpad is available, your app can provide one of the three
following haptic patterns in response to a drag operation or force click.

Haptic feedback pattern| Description  
---|---  
Alignment| Indicates the alignment of a dragged item. For example, this
pattern could be used in a drawing app when the people drag a shape into
alignment with another shape. Other scenarios where this type of feedback
could be used might include scaling an object to fit within specific
dimensions, positioning an object at a preferred location, or reaching the
beginning/end or minimum/maximum of something like a scrubber in a video app.  
Level change| Indicates movement between discrete levels of pressure. For
example, as people press a fast-forward button on a video player, playback
could increase or decrease and haptic feedback could be provided as different
levels of pressure are reached.  
Generic| Intended for providing general feedback when the other patterns don’t
apply.  
  
For developer guidance, see
[`NSHapticFeedbackPerformer`](/documentation/AppKit/NSHapticFeedbackPerformer).

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#watchOS)

Apple Watch Series 4 and later provides haptic feedback for the Digital Crown,
which gives people a more tactile experience as they scroll through content.
By default, the system provides linear haptic detents that people can feel as
they rotate the Digital Crown. Some system controls, like table views, provide
detents as new items scroll onto the screen. For developer guidance, see
[`WKHapticType`](/documentation/WatchKit/WKHapticType).

watchOS defines the following set of haptics, each of which conveys a specific
meaning to people.

  * Notification 
  * Up 
  * Down 
  * Success 
  * Failure 
  * Retry 
  * Start 
  * Stop 
  * Click 

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Notification.** Tells the person that something significant or out of the
ordinary has happened and requires their attention. The system plays this same
haptic when a local or remote notification arrives.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Up.** Tells the person that an important value increased above a significant
threshold.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Down.** Tells the person that an important value decreased below a
significant threshold.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Success.** Tells the person that an action completed successfully.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Failure.** Tells the person that an action failed.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Retry.** Tells the person that an action failed but they can retry it.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Start.** Tells the person that an activity started. Use this haptic when
starting a timer or any other activity that a person can explicitly start and
stop. The stop haptic usually follows this haptic.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Stop.** Tells the person that an activity stopped. Use this haptic when
stopping a timer or other activity that the person previously started.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: An animation that represents an arrangement of haptic
pulses of various durations and strengths by showing a set of thin vertical
lines that symbolize sound waves.

Play

**Click.** Provides the sensation of a dial clicking, helping you communicate
progress at predefined increments or intervals. Overusing the click haptic
tends to diminish its utility and can even be confusing when clicks overlap
each other.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Related)

[Feedback](/design/human-interface-guidelines/feedback)

[Gestures](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-
haptics#Developer-documentation)

[Core Haptics](/documentation/CoreHaptics)

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/119/100FA6DD-1A48-485A-AFC2-47FDB92376D3/5210_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Practice audio haptic design
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2021/10278)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/48/9EEAE751-B5EE-4934-8F3A-38361FBA05DE/3277_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Introducing Core Haptics
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2019/520)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
May 7, 2024| Added guidance for playing haptics on Apple Pencil Pro.  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.

