July 28, 2025

Added guidance for scroll edge effects.

# Scroll views

A scroll view lets people view content that’s larger than the view’s
boundaries by moving the content vertically or horizontally.

The scroll view itself has no appearance, but it can display a translucent
_scroll indicator_ that typically appears after people begin scrolling the
view’s content. Although the appearance and behavior of scroll indicators can
vary per platform, all indicators provide visual feedback about the scrolling
action. For example, in iOS, iPadOS, macOS, visionOS, and watchOS, the
indicator shows whether the currently visible content is near the beginning,
middle, or end of the view.

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#Best-
practices)

**Support default scrolling gestures and keyboard shortcuts.** People are
accustomed to the systemwide scrolling behavior and expect it to work
everywhere. If you build custom scrolling for a view, make sure your scroll
indicators use the elastic behavior that people expect.

**Make it apparent when content is scrollable.** Because scroll indicators
aren’t always visible, it can be helpful to make it obvious when content
extends beyond the view. For example, displaying partial content at the edge
of a view indicates that there’s more content in that direction. Although most
people immediately try scrolling a view to discover if additional content is
available, it’s considerate to draw their attention to it.

**Avoid putting a scroll view inside another scroll view with the same
orientation.** Nesting scroll views that have the same orientation can create
an unpredictable interface that’s difficult to control. It’s alright to place
a horizontal scroll view inside a vertical scroll view (or vice versa),
however.

**Consider supporting page-by-page scrolling if it makes sense for your
content.** In some situations, people appreciate scrolling by a fixed amount
of content per interaction instead of scrolling continuously. On most
platforms, you can define the size of such a _page_ — typically the current
height or width of the view — and define an interaction that scrolls one page
at a time. To help maintain context during page-by-page scrolling, you can
define a unit of overlap, such as a line of text, a row of glyphs, or part of
a picture, and subtract the unit from the page size. For developer guidance,
see
[`PagingScrollTargetBehavior`](/documentation/SwiftUI/PagingScrollTargetBehavior).

**In some cases, scroll automatically to help people find their place.**
Although people initiate almost all scrolling, automatic scrolling can be
helpful when relevant content is no longer in view, such as when:

  * Your app performs an operation that selects content or places the insertion point in an area that’s currently hidden. For example, when your app locates text that people are searching for, scroll the content to bring the new selection into view.

  * People start entering information in a location that’s not currently visible. For example, if the insertion point is on one page and people navigate to another page, scroll back to the insertion point as soon as they begin to enter text.

  * The pointer moves past the edge of the view while people are making a selection. In this case, follow the pointer by scrolling in the direction it moves.

  * People select something and scroll to a new location before acting on the selection. In this case, scroll until the selection is in view before performing the operation.

In all cases, automatically scroll the content only as much as necessary to
help people retain context. For example, if part of a selection is visible,
you don’t need to scroll the entire selection into view.

**If you support zoom, set appropriate maximum and minimum scale values.** For
example, zooming in on text until a single character fills the screen doesn’t
make sense in most situations.

## [Scroll edge effects](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-
views#Scroll-edge-effects)

In iOS, iPadOS, and macOS, a _scroll edge effect_ is a variable blur that
provides a transition between a content area and an area with [Liquid
Glass](/design/human-interface-guidelines/materials#Liquid-Glass) controls,
such as [toolbars](/design/human-interface-guidelines/toolbars). In most
cases, the system applies a scroll edge effect automatically when a pinned
element overlaps with scrolling content. If you use custom controls or
layouts, the effect might not appear, and you may need to add it manually. For
developer guidance, see
[`ScrollEdgeEffectStyle`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ScrollEdgeEffectStyle) and
[`UIScrollEdgeEffect`](/documentation/UIKit/UIScrollEdgeEffect).

There are two styles of scroll edge effect: soft and hard.

  * Use a [`soft`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ScrollEdgeEffectStyle/soft) edge effect in most cases, especially in iOS and iPadOS, to provide a subtle transition that works well for toolbars and interactive elements like buttons.

  * Use a [`hard`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ScrollEdgeEffectStyle/hard) edge effect primarily in macOS for a stronger, more opaque boundary that’s ideal for interactive text, backless controls, or pinned table headers that need extra clarity.

**Only use a scroll edge effect when a scroll view is adjacent to floating
interface elements.** Scroll edge effects aren’t decorative. They don’t block
or darken like overlays; they exist to clarify where controls and content
meet.

**Apply one scroll edge effect per view.** In split view layouts on iPad and
Mac, each pane can have its own scroll edge effect; in this case, keep them
consistent in height to maintain alignment.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-
views#Platform-considerations)

### [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#iOS-iPadOS)

**Consider showing a page control when a scroll view is in page-by-page
mode.** [Page controls](/design/human-interface-guidelines/page-controls) show
how many pages, screens, or other chunks of content are available and
indicates which one is currently visible. For example, Weather uses a page
control to indicate movement between people’s saved locations. If you show a
page control with a scroll view, don’t show the scrolling indicator on the
same axis to avoid confusing people with redundant controls.

### [macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#macOS)

In macOS, a _scroll indicator_ is commonly called a _scroll bar_.

**If necessary, use small or mini scroll bars in a panel.** When space is
tight, you can use smaller scroll bars in panels that need to coexist with
other windows. Be sure to use the same size for all controls in such a panel.

### [tvOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#tvOS)

Views in tvOS can scroll, but they aren’t treated as distinct objects with
scroll indicators. Instead, when content exceeds the size of the screen, the
system automatically scrolls the interface to keep focused items visible.

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#visionOS)

In visionOS, the scroll indicator has a small, fixed size to help communicate
that people can scroll efficiently without making large movements. To make it
easy to find, the scroll indicator always appears in a predictable location
with respect to the window: vertically centered at the trailing edge during
vertical scrolling and horizontally centered at the window’s bottom edge
during horizontal scrolling.

When people begin swiping content in the direction they want it to scroll, the
scroll indicator appears at the window’s edge, visually reinforcing the effect
of their gesture and providing feedback about the content’s current position
and overall length. When people look at the scroll indicator and begin a drag
gesture, the indicator enables a jog bar experience that lets people
manipulate the scrolling speed instead of the content’s position. In this
experience, the scroll indicator reveals tick marks that speed up or slow down
as people make small adjustments to their gesture, providing visual feedback
that helps people precisely control scrolling acceleration.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: A recording showing a scroll indicator on a long page in
the Notes app. As the viewer drags the page quickly, the indicator shows tick
marks that match the scrolling speed.

Play

**If necessary, account for the size of the scroll indicator.** Although the
indicator’s overall size is small, it’s a little thicker than the same
component in iOS. If your content uses tight margins, consider increasing them
to prevent the scroll indicator from overlapping the content.

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#watchOS)

**Prefer vertically scrolling content.** People are accustomed to using the
Digital Crown to navigate to and within apps on Apple Watch. If your app
contains a single list or content view, rotating the Digital Crown scrolls
vertically when your app’s content is taller than the height of the display.

**Use tab views to provide page-by-page scrolling.** watchOS displays tab
views as pages. If you place tab views in a vertical stack, people can rotate
the Digital Crown to move vertically through full-screen pages of content. In
this scenario, the system displays a page indicator next to the Digital Crown
that shows people where they are in the content, both within the current page
and within a set of pages. For guidance, see [Tab views](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/tab-views).

**When displaying paged content, consider limiting the content of an
individual page to a single screen height.** Embracing this constraint
clarifies the purpose of each page, helping you create a more glanceable
design. However, if your app has long pages, people can still use the Digital
Crown both to navigate between shorter pages and to scroll content in a longer
page because the page indicator expands into a scroll indicator when
necessary. Use variable-height pages judiciously and place them after fixed-
height pages when possible.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#Related)

[Page controls](/design/human-interface-guidelines/page-controls)

[Gestures](/design/human-interface-guidelines/gestures)

[Pointing devices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/pointing-devices)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-
views#Developer-documentation)

[`ScrollView`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ScrollView)

[`UIScrollView`](/documentation/UIKit/UIScrollView)

[`NSScrollView`](/documentation/AppKit/NSScrollView)

[`WKPageOrientation`](/documentation/WatchKit/WKPageOrientation)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/scroll-views#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
July 28, 2025| Added guidance for scroll edge effects.  
February 2, 2024| Added artwork showing the behavior of the visionOS scroll
indicator.  
December 5, 2023| Described the visionOS scroll indicator and added guidance
for integrating it with window layout.  
June 5, 2023| Updated guidance for using scroll views in watchOS.

