# Search fields

A search field lets people search a collection of content for specific terms
they enter.

A search field is an editable text field that displays a Search icon, a Clear
button, and placeholder text where people can enter what they are searching
for. Search fields can use a [scope control](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/search-fields#Scope-controls-and-tokens) as well as
[tokens](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#Scope-controls-and-
tokens) to help filter and refine the scope of their search. Across each
platform, there are different patterns for accessing search based on the goals
and design of your app.

For developer guidance, see [Adding a search interface to your
app](/documentation/SwiftUI/Adding-a-search-interface-to-your-app); for
guidance related to systemwide search, see [Searching](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/searching).

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#Best-
practices)

**Display placeholder text that describes the type of information people can
search for.** For example, the Apple TV app includes the placeholder text
_Shows, Movies, and More_. Avoid using a term like _Search_ for placeholder
text because it doesn’t provide any helpful information.

**If possible, start search immediately when a person types.** Searching while
someone types makes the search experience feel more responsive because it
provides results that are continuously refined as the text becomes more
specific.

**Consider showing suggested search terms before search begins, or as a person
types.** This can help someone search faster by suggesting common searches,
even when the search itself doesn’t begin immediately.

**Simplify search results.** Provide the most relevant search results first to
minimize the need for someone to scroll to find what they’re looking for. In
addition to prioritizing the most likely results, consider categorizing them
to help people find what they want.

**Consider letting people filter search results.** For example, you can
include a scope control in the search results content area to help people
quickly and easily filter search results.

## [Scope controls and tokens](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-
fields#Scope-controls-and-tokens)

Scope controls and tokens are components you can use to let someone narrow the
parameters of a search either before or after they make it.

  * A _scope control_ acts like a [segmented control](/design/human-interface-guidelines/segmented-controls) for choosing a category for the search.

  * A _token_ is a visual representation of a search term that someone can select and edit, and acts as a filter for any additional terms in the search.

**Use a scope control to filter among clearly defined search categories.** A
scope control can help someone move from a broader scope to a narrower one.
For example, in Mail on iPhone, a scope control helps people move from
searching their entire mailbox to just the specific mailbox they’re viewing.
For developer guidance, see [Scoping a search
operation](/documentation/SwiftUI/Scoping-a-search-operation).

**Default to a broader scope and let people refine it as they need.** A
broader scope provides context for the full set of available results, which
helps guide people in a useful direction when they choose to narrow the scope.

**Use tokens to filter by common search terms or items.** When you define a
token, the term it represents gains a visual treatment that encapsulates it,
indicating that people can select and edit it as a single item. Tokens can
clarify a search term, like filtering by a specific contact in Mail, or focus
a search to a specific set of attributes, like filtering by photos in
Messages. For the related macOS component, see [Token fields](/design/human-
interface-guidelines/token-fields).

**Consider pairing tokens with search suggestions.** People may not know which
tokens are available, so pairing them with search suggestions can help people
learn how to use them.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-
fields#Platform-considerations)

 _No additional considerations for visionOS_.

### [iOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#iOS)

There are three main places you can position the entry point for search:

  * In a tab bar at the bottom of the screen

  * In a toolbar at the bottom or top of the screen

  * Directly inline with content

Where search makes the most sense depends on the layout, content, and
navigation of your app.

#### [Search in a tab bar](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-
fields#Search-in-a-tab-bar)

You can place search as a visually distinct tab on the trailing side of a tab
bar, which keeps search visible and always available as people switch between
the sections of your app.

When someone navigates to the search tab, the search field that appears can
start as _focused_ or _unfocused_.

Focused

Unfocused

**Start with the search field focused to help people quickly find what they
need.** When the search field starts focused, the keyboard immediately appears
with the search field above it, ready to begin the search. This provides a
more transient experience that brings people directly back to their previous
tab after they exit search, and is ideal when you want search to resolve
quickly and seamlessly.

**Start with the search field unfocused to promote discovery and
exploration.** When the search field starts unfocused, the search tab expands
into an unselected field at the bottom of the screen. This provides space on
the rest of the screen for additional discovery or navigation before someone
taps the field to begin the search. This is great for an app with a large
collection of content to showcase, like Music or TV.

#### [Search in a toolbar](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-
fields#Search-in-a-toolbar)

As an alternative to search in a tab bar, you can also place search in a
toolbar either at the bottom or top of the screen.

  * You can include search in a bottom toolbar either as an expanded field or as a toolbar button, depending on how much space is available and how important search is to your app. When someone taps it, it animates into a search field above the keyboard so they can begin typing.

  * You can include search in a top toolbar, also called a navigation bar, where it appears as a toolbar button. When someone taps it, it animates into a search field that appears either above the keyboard or inline at the top if there isn’t space at the bottom.

![An illustration of an iPhone screen with search in a bottom toolbar. The
search field is positioned in an isolated group between a Filter button on the
leading edge and a Compose button on the trailing edge.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/face9eed2f9c99f2c12ca3a400919e03/search-
fields-ios-toolbar-with-items%402x.png)

Search in a bottom toolbar

![An illustration of an iPhone screen with search in a top toolbar. A Back
button appears on the leading edge, and an Add button appears on the trailing
edge. An button group with Search and More appears next to the Add
button.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/ca4d0118cd29bd05bd2fd114163a1f64/search-
fields-ios-navigation-bar-item%402x.png)

Search in a top toolbar

**Place search at the bottom if there’s room.** You can either add a search
field to an existing toolbar, or as a new toolbar where search is the only
item. Search at the bottom is useful in any situation where search is a
priority, since it keeps the search experience easy to reach. Examples of apps
with search at the bottom in various toolbar layouts include Settings, where
it’s the only item, and Mail and Notes, where it fits alongside other
important controls.

**Place search at the top when itʼs important to defer to content at the
bottom of the screen, or thereʼs no bottom toolbar.** Use search at the top in
cases where covering the content might interfere with a primary function of
the app. The Wallet app, for example, includes event passes in a stack at the
bottom of the screen for easy access and viewing at a glance.

#### [Search as an inline field](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-
fields#Search-as-an-inline-field)

In some cases you might want your app to include a search field inline with
content.

**Place search as an inline field when its position alongside the content it
searches strengthens that relationship.** When you need to filter or search
within a single view, it can be helpful to have search appear directly next to
content to illustrate that the search applies to it, rather than globally. For
example, although the main search in the Music app is in the tab bar, people
can navigate to their library and use an inline search field to filter their
songs and albums.

**Prefer placing search at the bottom.** Generally, even for search that
applies to a subset of your app’s content, it’s better to locate search where
people can reach it easily. The Settings app, for example, places search at
the bottom both for its top-level search and for search in the section for
individual apps. If there isn’t space at the bottom (because it’s occupied by
a tab bar or other important UI, for example), it’s okay to place search
inline at the top.

**When at the top, position an inline search field above the list it searches,
and pin it to the top toolbar when scrolling.** This helps keep it distinct
from search that appears in other locations.

### [iPadOS, macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#iPadOS-
macOS)

The placement and behavior of the search field in iPadOS and macOS is similar;
on both platforms, clearing the field exits search and dismisses the keyboard
if present. If your app is available on both iPad and Mac, try to keep the
search experience as consistent as possible across both platforms.

![An illustration of an iPad screen with a search field on the trailing edge
of the top toolbar. The search field has the word Design entered into the
field, and three search suggestions appear in a list beneath the field. The
toolbar also includes an Inspector button, a group with New Folder and
Favorite buttons, and a Share button next to the search field.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/368ba21a44b4c65a4e53d3d2197d061b/search-
fields-toolbar-search-ipad%402x.png)iPadOS

![An illustration of a Mac screen with a search field on the trailing edge of
the toolbar. The search field has the word Design entered into the field, and
three search suggestions appear in a list beneath the field. The toolbar also
includes an Inspector button, a group with New Folder and Favorite buttons,
and a Share button next to the search field.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/eb1970b09f7b35b39757201a31289bc3/search-
fields-toolbar-search-mac%402x.png)macOS

**Put a search field at the trailing side of the toolbar for many common
uses.** Many apps benefit from the familiar pattern of search in the toolbar,
particularly apps with split views or apps that navigate between multiple
sources, like Mail, Notes, and Voice Memos. The persistent availability of
search at the side of the toolbar gives it a global presence within your app,
so it’s generally appropriate to start with a global scope for the initial
search.

**Include search at the top of the sidebar when filtering content or
navigation there.** Apps such as Settings take advantage of search to quickly
filter the sidebar and expose sections that may be multiple levels deep,
providing a simple way for people to search, preview, and navigate to the
section or setting they’re looking for.

![An illustration of an iPad screen with a search field at the top of the
sidebar on the leading edge of the screen.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/8aed61a23fe2a9885d1a1d1da15a4b09/search-
fields-ipad-search-in-sidebar%402x.png)

**Include search as an item in the sidebar or tab bar when you want an area
dedicated to discovery.** If your search is paired with rich suggestions,
categories, or content that needs more space, it can be helpful to have a
dedicated area for it. This is particularly true for apps where browsing and
search go hand in hand, like Music and TV, where it provides a unified
location to highlight suggested content, categories, and recent searches. A
dedicated area also ensures search is always available as people navigate and
switch sections of your app.

![An illustration of an iPad screen with a tab bar at the top edge. The
trailing side of the tab bar includes a Search tab with a distinct background
color to differentiate it from other tab areas.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/a2ab9bc29018fc1bbc604a91dfc905c7/search-
fields-ipad-search-in-tab-bar%402x.png)

**In a search field in a dedicated area, consider immediately focusing the
field when a person navigates to the section to help people search faster and
locate the field itself more easily.** An exception to this is on iPad when
only a virtual keyboard is available, in which case it’s better to leave the
field unfocused to prevent the keyboard from unexpectedly covering the view.

**Account for window resizing with the placement of the search field.** On
iPad, the search field fluidly resizes with the app window like it does on
Mac. However, for compact views on iPad, itʼs important to ensure that search
is available where it’s most contextually useful. For example, Notes and Mail
place search above the column for the content list when they resize down to a
compact view.

### [tvOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#tvOS)

A search screen is a specialized keyboard screen that helps people enter
search text, displaying search results beneath the keyboard in a fully
customizable view. For developer guidance, see
[`UISearchController`](/documentation/UIKit/UISearchController).

![An illustration of a search screen in tvOS. The screen includes a field with
a keyboard input area at the top, a scope control, and a grid of top results
at the bottom.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/590a4ef7b02ccd9758f0e52e5c261574/search-
fields-tvos-search%402x.png)

**Provide suggestions to make searching easier.** People typically don’t want
to do a lot of typing in tvOS. To improve the search experience, provide
popular and context-specific search suggestions, including recent searches
when available. For developer guidance, see [Using suggested searches with a
search controller](/documentation/UIKit/using-suggested-searches-with-a-
search-controller).

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#watchOS)

When someone taps the search field, the system displays a text-input control
that covers the entire screen. The app only returns to the search field after
they tap the Cancel or Search button.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#Related)

[Searching](/design/human-interface-guidelines/searching)

[Token fields](/design/human-interface-guidelines/token-fields)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-
fields#Developer-documentation)

[Adding a search interface to your app](/documentation/SwiftUI/Adding-a-
search-interface-to-your-app) — SwiftUI

[`searchable(text:placement:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/searchable\(text:placement:\))
— SwiftUI

[`UISearchBar`](/documentation/UIKit/UISearchBar) — UIKit

[`UISearchTextField`](/documentation/UIKit/UISearchTextField) — UIKit

[`NSSearchField`](/documentation/AppKit/NSSearchField) — AppKit

#### [Videos](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#Videos)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/1AAA030E-2ECA-47D8-AE09-6D7B72A840F6/10044_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Get to know the new design system
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/356)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/119/BE8FF113-0FE1-40FC-86BF-
FE95BE2FF7A5/5027_wide_250x141_1x.jpg) Discoverable design
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2021/10126)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/119/D45C244B-2038-4692-99A0-6131ED5FD984/5084_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Craft search experiences in SwiftUI
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2021/10176)

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/search-fields#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 9, 2025| Updated guidance for search placement in iOS, consolidated
iPadOS and macOS platform considerations, and added guidance for tokens.  
September 12, 2023| Combined guidance common to all platforms.  
June 5, 2023| Added guidance for using search fields in watchOS.

