# Sliders

A slider is a horizontal track with a control, called a thumb, that people can
adjust between a minimum and maximum value.

As a slider’s value changes, the portion of track between the minimum value
and the thumb fills with color. A slider can optionally display left and right
icons that illustrate the meaning of the minimum and maximum values.

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders#Best-practices)

**Customize a slider’s appearance if it adds value.** You can adjust a
slider’s appearance — including track color, thumb image and tint color, and
left and right icons — to blend with your app’s design and communicate intent.
A slider that adjusts image size, for example, could show a small image icon
on the left and a large image icon on the right.

**Use familiar slider directions.** People expect the minimum and maximum
sides of sliders to be consistent in all apps, with minimum values on the
leading side and maximum values on the trailing side (for horizontal sliders)
and minimum values at the bottom and maximum values at the top (for vertical
sliders). For example, people expect to be able to move a horizontal slider
that represents a percentage from 0 percent on the leading side to 100 percent
on the trailing side.

**Consider supplementing a slider with a corresponding text field and
stepper.** Especially when a slider represents a wide range of values, people
may appreciate seeing the exact slider value and having the ability to enter a
specific value in a text field. Adding a stepper provides a convenient way for
people to increment in whole values. For related guidance, see [Text
fields](/design/human-interface-guidelines/text-fields) and
[Steppers](/design/human-interface-guidelines/steppers).

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/sliders#Platform-considerations)

 _Not supported in tvOS._

### [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders#iOS-iPadOS)

**Don’t use a slider to adjust audio volume.** If you need to provide volume
control in your app, use a volume view, which is customizable and includes a
volume-level slider and a control for changing the active audio output device.
For guidance, see [Playing audio](/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-
audio).

### [macOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders#macOS)

Sliders in macOS can also include tick marks, making it easier for people to
pinpoint a specific value within the range.

In a linear slider either with or without tick marks, the thumb is a narrow
lozenge shape, and the portion of track between the minimum value and the
thumb is filled with color. A linear slider often includes supplementary icons
that illustrate the meaning of the minimum and maximum values.

In a circular slider, the thumb appears as a small circle. Tick marks, when
present, appear as evenly spaced dots around the circumference of the slider.

Linear slider without tick marks

Linear slider with tick marks

Circular slider

**Consider giving live feedback as the value of a slider changes.** Live
feedback shows people results in real time. For example, your Dock icons are
dynamically scaled when adjusting the Size slider in Dock settings.

**Choose a slider style that matches peoples’ expectations.** A horizontal
slider is ideal when moving between a fixed starting and ending point. For
example, a graphics app might offer a horizontal slider for setting the
opacity level of an object between 0 and 100 percent. Use circular sliders
when values repeat or continue indefinitely. For example, a graphics app might
use a circular slider to adjust the rotation of an object between 0 and 360
degrees. An animation app might use a circular slider to adjust how many times
an object spins when animated — four complete rotations equals four spins, or
1440 degrees of rotation.

**Consider using a label to introduce a slider.** Labels generally use
[sentence-style
capitalization](https://help.apple.com/applestyleguide/#/apsgb744e4a3?sub=apdca93e113f1d64)
and end with a colon. For guidance, see [Labels](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/labels).

**Use tick marks to increase clarity and accuracy.** Tick marks help people
understand the scale of measurements and make it easier to locate specific
values.

**Consider adding labels to tick marks for even greater clarity.** Labels can
be numbers or words, depending on the slider’s values. It’s unnecessary to
label every tick mark unless doing so is needed to reduce confusion. In many
cases, labeling only the minimum and maximum values is sufficient. When the
values of the slider are nonlinear, like in the Energy Saver settings pane,
periodic labels provide context. It’s also a good idea to provide a
[tooltip](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-
guidelines/offering-help#macOS-visionOS) that displays the value of the thumb
when people hold their pointer over it.

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders#visionOS)

**Prefer horizontal sliders.** It’s generally easier for people to gesture
from side to side than up and down.

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders#watchOS)

A slider is a horizontal track — appearing as a set of discrete steps or as a
continuous bar — that represents a finite range of values. People can tap
buttons on the sides of the slider to increase or decrease its value by a
predefined amount.

Discrete

Continuous

**If necessary, create custom glyphs to communicate what the slider does.**
The system displays plus and minus signs by default.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders#Related)

[Steppers](/design/human-interface-guidelines/steppers)

[Pickers](/design/human-interface-guidelines/pickers)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/sliders#Developer-documentation)

[`Slider`](/documentation/SwiftUI/Slider) — SwiftUI

[`UISlider`](/documentation/UIKit/UISlider) — UIKit

[`NSSlider`](/documentation/AppKit/NSSlider) — AppKit

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sliders#Change-log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 21, 2023| Updated to include guidance for visionOS.

