# Virtual keyboards

On devices without physical keyboards, the system offers various types of
virtual keyboards people can use to enter data.

A virtual keyboard can provide a specific set of keys that are optimized for
the current task; for example, a keyboard that supports entering email
addresses can include the “@” character and a period or even “.com”. A virtual
keyboard doesn’t support keyboard shortcuts.

When it makes sense in your app, you can replace the system-provided keyboard
with a custom view that supports app-specific data entry. In iOS, iPadOS, and
tvOS, you can also create an app extension that offers a custom keyboard
people can install and use in place of the standard keyboard.

## [Best practices](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-keyboards#Best-
practices)

**Choose a keyboard that matches the type of content people are editing.** For
example, you can help people enter numeric data by providing the numbers and
punctuation keyboard. When you specify a semantic meaning for a text input
area, the system can automatically provide a keyboard that matches the type of
input you expect, potentially using this information to refine the keyboard
corrections it offers. For developer guidance, see
[`keyboardType(_:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/keyboardType\(_:\))
(SwiftUI),
[`textContentType(_:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/textContentType\(_:\))(SwiftUI),
[`UIKeyboardType`](/documentation/UIKit/UIKeyboardType) (UIKit), and
[`UITextContentType`](/documentation/UIKit/UITextContentType) (UIKit).

  * ASCII capable 
  * ASCII capable number pad 
  * Decimal pad 
  * Default 
  * Email address 
  * Name phone pad 
  * Number pad 
  * Numbers and punctuation 
  * Phone pad 
  * Twitter 
  * URL 
  * Web search 

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 10 number
keys in addition to the Delete key. Keys for the numbers 2 through 9 each
include the 3 or 4 letters associated with the number on a
phone.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/1da579d09964a9bd81a0823d52fa18e5/virtual-
keyboard-ascii-capable-number-pad%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 10 number
keys in addition to the Delete and period keys. Keys for the numbers 2 through
9 each include the 3 or 4 letters associated with the number on a
phone.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/4b43048f8d2f13d8322b95266bc4c4f3/virtual-
keyboard-decimal-pad%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 26 letter
keys in addition to the Shift, Delete, Numbers, Space, and Return keys. Typing
suggestions appear above the keyboard and the  Emoji and Dictation buttons
appear below it.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/34447cdc5d5eb61f1734a046f3d108c6/virtual-
keyboard-default%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 26 letter
keys in addition to the Shift, Delete, Numbers, Space, period, at symbol, and
Return keys. Typing suggestions appear above the keyboard and the Emoji button
appears below it.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/e7dcd10c36065774ac8cadf76b09d8e4/virtual-
keyboard-email-address%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 26 letter
keys in addition to the Shift, Delete, Numbers, Space, and Return keys. Typing
suggestions appear above the keyboard and the Emoji and Dictation buttons
appear below it.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/3228cd2d2cd6d36e3db1aff1d50ad903/virtual-
keyboard-name-phone-pad%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 10 number
keys in addition to the Delete key. Keys for the numbers 2 through 9 each
include the 3 or 4 letters associated with the number on a
phone.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/679c33bdff61bc9e257982b7cffba264/virtual-
keyboard-number-pad%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays 10 number and 15
punctuation keys in addition to the secondary punctuation key and the Delete,
Letters, Space, and Return keys. Typing suggestions appear above the keyboard
and the Dictation button appears below it.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/916933140730b2db67f8004991c558aa/virtual-
keyboard-numbers-and-punctuation%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 10 number
keys in addition to the Delete key and a key for plus, star, and hash. Keys
for the numbers 2 through 9 each include the 3 or 4 letters associated with
the number on a phone.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/b1b427eb7252b94e7b9d0095ccd04f56/virtual-
keyboard-phone-pad%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 26 letter
keys in addition to the Shift, Delete, Numbers, Space, at symbol, and hash
keys. Typing suggestions appear above the keyboard and the Emoji and Dictation
buttons appear below it.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/21b1b12df6335045a6f29efc8cbdb5a1/virtual-
keyboard-twitter%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 26 letter
keys in addition to the Shift, Delete, Numbers, period, slash, dot com, and
Return keys. Typing suggestions appear above the keyboard and the Emoji button
appears below it.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/daec1d80ab39aff3f52effb615f84425/virtual-
keyboard-url%402x.png)

![A partial screenshot of a keyboard on iPhone that displays all 26 letter
keys in addition to the Shift, Delete, Numbers, Space, period, and Go keys.
Typing suggestions appear above the keyboard and the Emoji and Dictation
buttons appear below it.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/0618532f75b91e3f3be2416a363d4a43/virtual-
keyboard-web-search%402x.png)

**Consider customizing the Return key type if it helps clarify the text-entry
experience.** The Return key type is based on the keyboard type you choose,
but you can change this if it makes sense in your app. For example, if your
app initiates a search, you can use a search Return key type rather than the
standard one so the experience is consistent with other places people initiate
search. For developer guidance, see
[`submitLabel(_:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/submitLabel\(_:\)) (SwiftUI)
and [`UIReturnKeyType`](/documentation/UIKit/UIReturnKeyType) (UIKit).

## [Custom input views](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-
keyboards#Custom-input-views)

In some cases, you can create an _input view_ if you want to provide custom
functionality that enhances data-entry tasks in your app. For example, Numbers
provides a custom input view for entering numeric values while editing a
spreadsheet. A custom input view replaces the system-provided keyboard while
people are in your app. For developer guidance, see
[`ToolbarItemPlacement`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ToolbarItemPlacement)
(SwiftUI) and
[`inputViewController`](/documentation/UIKit/UIResponder/inputViewController)
(UIKit).

**Make sure your custom input view makes sense in the context of your app.**
In addition to making data entry simple and intuitive, you want people to
understand the benefits of using your custom input view. Otherwise, they may
wonder why they can’t regain the system keyboard while in your app.

**Play the standard keyboard sound while people type.** The keyboard sound
provides familiar feedback when people tap a key on the system keyboard, so
they’re likely to expect the same sound when they tap keys in your custom
input view. People can turn keyboard sounds off for all keyboard interactions
in Settings > Sounds. For developer guidance, see
[`playInputClick()`](/documentation/UIKit/UIDevice/playInputClick\(\))
(UIKit).

## [Custom keyboards](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-
keyboards#Custom-keyboards)

In iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS, you can provide a custom keyboard that replaces the
system keyboard by creating an app extension. An _app extension_ is code you
provide that people can install and use to extend the functionality of a
specific area of the system; to learn more, see [App
extensions](https://developer.apple.com/app-extensions/).

After people choose your custom keyboard in Settings, they can use it for text
entry within any app, except when editing secure text fields and phone number
fields. People can choose multiple custom keyboards and switch between them at
any time. For developer guidance, see [Creating a custom
keyboard](/documentation/UIKit/creating-a-custom-keyboard).

Custom keyboards make sense when you want to expose unique keyboard
functionality systemwide, such as a novel way of inputting text or the ability
to type in a language the system doesn’t support. If you want to provide a
custom keyboard for people to use only while they’re in your app, consider
creating a custom input view instead.

**Provide an obvious and easy way to switch between keyboards.** People know
that the Globe key on the standard keyboard — which replaces the dedicated
Emoji key when multiple keyboards are available — quickly switches to other
keyboards, and they expect a similarly intuitive experience in your keyboard.

**Avoid duplicating system-provided keyboard features.** On some devices, the
Emoji/Globe key and Dictation key automatically appear beneath the keyboard,
even when people are using custom keyboards. Your app can’t affect these keys,
and it’s likely to be confusing if you repeat them in your keyboard.

**Consider providing a keyboard tutorial in your app.** People are used to the
standard keyboard, and learning how to use a new keyboard can take time. You
can help make the process easier by providing usage instructions in your app —
for example, you might tell people how to choose your keyboard, activate it
during text entry, use it, and switch back to the standard keyboard. Avoid
displaying help content within the keyboard itself.

## [Platform considerations](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-
keyboards#Platform-considerations)

 _Not supported in macOS._

### [iOS, iPadOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-keyboards#iOS-
iPadOS)

**Use the keyboard layout guide to make the keyboard feel like an integrated
part of your interface.** Using the layout guide also helps you keep important
parts of your interface visible while the virtual keyboard is onscreen. For
developer guidance, see [Adjusting your layout with keyboard layout
guide](/documentation/UIKit/adjusting-your-layout-with-keyboard-layout-guide).

The keyboard layout guide helps ensure that app UI and the keyboard work well
together.

Without the layout guide, the keyboard could make entering text more
difficult.

Without the layout guide, the keyboard could make tapping a button more
difficult.

**Place custom controls above the keyboard thoughtfully.** Some apps position
an input accessory view containing custom controls above the keyboard to offer
app-specific functionality related to the data people are working with. For
example, Numbers displays controls that help people apply standard or custom
calculations to spreadsheet data. If your app offers custom controls that
augment the keyboard, make sure they’re relevant to the current task. If other
views in your app use Liquid Glass, or if your view looks out of place above
the keyboard, apply Liquid Glass to the view that contains your controls to
maintain consistency. If you use a standard toolbar to contain your controls,
it automatically adopts Liquid Glass. Use the keyboard layout guide and
standard padding to ensure the system positions your controls as expected
within the view. For developer guidance, see
[`ToolbarItemPlacement`](/documentation/SwiftUI/ToolbarItemPlacement)
(SwiftUI),
[`inputAccessoryView`](/documentation/UIKit/UIResponder/inputAccessoryView)
(UIKit), and
[`UIKeyboardLayoutGuide`](/documentation/UIKit/UIKeyboardLayoutGuide) (UIKit).

### [tvOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-keyboards#tvOS)

tvOS displays a linear virtual keyboard when people select a text field using
the Siri Remote.

Note

A grid keyboard screen appears when people use devices other than the Siri
Remote, and the layout of content automatically adapts to the keyboard.

When people activate a digit entry view, tvOS displays a digit-specific
keyboard. For guidance, see [Digit entry views](/design/human-interface-
guidelines/digit-entry-views).

### [visionOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-keyboards#visionOS)

In visionOS, the system-provided virtual keyboard supports both direct and
indirect gestures and appears in a separate window that people can move where
they want. You don’t need to account for the location of the keyboard in your
layouts.

Video with custom controls.

Content description: A recording showing a person typing on a virtual keyboard
in visionOS.

Play

### [watchOS](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-keyboards#watchOS)

On Apple Watch, a text field can show a keyboard if the device screen is large
enough. Otherwise, the system lets people use dictation or Scribble to enter
information. You can’t change the keyboard type in watchOS, but you can set
the content type of the text field. The system uses this information to make
text entry easier, such as by offering suggestions. For developer guidance,
see [`textContentType(_:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/textContentType\(_:\))
(SwiftUI).

People can also use a nearby paired iPhone to enter text on Apple Watch.

## [Resources](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-keyboards#Resources)

#### [Related](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-keyboards#Related)

[Entering data](/design/human-interface-guidelines/entering-data)

[Keyboards](/design/human-interface-guidelines/keyboards)

[Layout](/design/human-interface-guidelines/layout)

#### [Developer documentation](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-
keyboards#Developer-documentation)

[`keyboardType(_:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/keyboardType\(_:\)) — SwiftUI

[`textContentType(_:)`](/documentation/SwiftUI/View/textContentType\(_:\)) —
SwiftUI

[`UIKeyboardType`](/documentation/UIKit/UIKeyboardType) — UIKit

## [Change log](/design/human-interface-guidelines/virtual-keyboards#Change-
log)

Date| Changes  
---|---  
June 9, 2025| Added guidance for displaying custom controls above the
keyboard, and updated to reflect virtual keyboard availability in watchOS.  
February 2, 2024| Clarified the virtual keyboard’s support for direct and
indirect gestures in visionOS.  
December 5, 2023| Added artwork for visionOS.  
June 21, 2023| Changed page title from Onscreen keyboards and updated to
include guidance for visionOS.

