# EAS Build

[Edit](https://github.com/expo/expo/edit/main/docs/pages/build/introduction.mdx)

Copy

EAS Build is a hosted service for building app binaries for your Expo and
React Native projects.

[Edit](https://github.com/expo/expo/edit/main/docs/pages/build/introduction.mdx)

Copy

* * *

EAS Build is a hosted service for building app binaries for your Expo and
React Native projects.

It makes building your apps for distribution simple and easy to automate by
providing defaults that work well for Expo and React Native projects out of
the box, and by handling your app signing credentials for you (if you wish).
It also makes sharing builds with your team easier than ever with [internal
distribution](/build/internal-distribution) (using ad hoc and/or enterprise
"universal" provisioning), deeply integrates with EAS Submit for app store
submissions, and has first-class support for the [`expo-
updates`](/build/updates) library.

It's designed to work for any native project, whether or not you use Expo and
React Native. It's the fastest way to get from `npx create-expo-app` or `npx
@react-native-community/cli@latest init` to app stores.

### Get started

[Create your first buildIt should only take a few minutes in total to get up
and running for iOS and/or Android.](/build/setup) [Share your apps with
internal testersEAS Build can help share preview builds of your app with a
single URL.](/build/internal-distribution) [Automate submissionsLearn how you
can have the service take your successful builds and handle uploading them to
app stores for you automatically.](/build/automate-submissions) [App version
managementAutomate version bumps so you never have to think about them
again.](/build-reference/app-versions) [Run builds locally or on your own
infrastructureEAS Build is a hosted service, but you can also run it on your
own machine, for example, to debug or to comply with any company security
policies.](/build-reference/local-builds) [LimitationsEAS Build is new and
rapidly evolving, so we recommend getting familiar with the current
limitations.](/build-reference/limitations)

