### [App Store Connect Help ](/help/app-store-connect/)

[App Store Connect](/help/app-store-connect/) / Manage app pricing / Set a
price

Filter ⌘K

  * [
  * Release notes ](/help/app-store-connect/release-notes/)
  * Get started

[

    * App Store Connect homepage ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-homepage) [
    * App Store Connect workflow ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-workflow) [
    * App Store Connect for iPhone and iPad ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-for-iphone-and-ipad) [
    * App Store Connect API ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-api)
  * Manage your team

[

    * Overview of accounts and roles ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/overview-of-accounts-and-roles) [
    * Add and edit users ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/add-and-edit-users) [
    * Edit access to apps ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/edit-access-to-apps) [
    * View and edit your profile ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/view-and-edit-your-profile) [
    * Manage webhooks ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/manage-webhooks)
  * Create an app record

[

    * Add a new app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-a-new-app) [
    * Set your developer name ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/set-your-developer-name) [
    * View and edit app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/view-and-edit-app-information) [
    * Add watchOS app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-watchos-app-information) [
    * Add iMessage app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-imessage-app-information) [
    * Add platforms ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-platforms) [
    * Create and submit app bundles ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/create-and-submit-app-bundles) [
    * Edit app bundle information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/edit-app-bundle-information) [
    * Remove an app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/remove-an-app) [
    * Edit access to an app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/edit-access-to-an-app)
  * Manage builds

[

    * Upload builds ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/upload-builds) [
    * View builds and metadata ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/view-builds-and-metadata) [
    * Choose a build to submit ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/choose-a-build-to-submit)
  * Manage asset packs

[

    * Overview of Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-asset-packs/overview-of-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Upload Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-asset-packs/upload-apple-hosted-asset-packs)
  * Manage app information

[

    * Set an app age rating ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-an-app-age-rating) [
    * Manage app tags ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/manage-app-tags) [
    * Set the app motion information for Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-the-app-motion-information-for-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Provide a custom license agreement ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/provide-a-custom-license-agreement) [
    * Localize app information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/localize-app-information) [
    * Manage app privacy ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/manage-app-privacy) [
    * Set a tax category ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-a-tax-category) [
    * Overview of export compliance ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/overview-of-export-compliance) [
    * Determine and upload app encryption documentation ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/determine-and-upload-app-encryption-documentation) [
    * Add an app icon ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/add-an-app-icon) [
    * Upload app previews and screenshots ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/upload-app-previews-and-screenshots) [
    * Set an app preview poster frame ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-an-app-preview-poster-frame) [
    * Remove app previews or screenshots ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/remove-app-previews-or-screenshots)
  * Manage app accessibility

[

    * Overview of Accessibility Nutrition Labels ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/overview-of-accessibility-nutrition-labels) [
    * VoiceOver evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/voiceover-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Voice Control evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/voice-control-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Larger Text evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/larger-text-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Dark Interface evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/dark-interface-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Differentiate Without Color Alone evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/differentiate-without-color-alone-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Sufficient Contrast evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/sufficient-contrast-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Reduced Motion evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/reduced-motion-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Captions evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/captions-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Audio Descriptions evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/audio-descriptions-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Manage Accessibility Nutrition Labels ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/manage-accessibility-nutrition-labels)
  * Test a beta version

[

    * TestFlight Overview ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/testflight-overview) [
    * Provide test information ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/provide-test-information) [
    * Add internal testers ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/add-internal-testers) [
    * Invite external testers ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/invite-external-testers) [
    * View and manage tester information ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-and-manage-tester-information) [
    * View tester feedback ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-tester-feedback) [
    * Add testers to builds ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/add-testers-to-builds) [
    * View build status and metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-build-status-and-metrics) [
    * Stop testing a build ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/stop-testing-a-build) [
    * Provide export compliance information for beta builds ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/provide-export-compliance-information-for-beta-builds) [
    * Test Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Remove testers from a group ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/remove-testers-from-a-group) [
    * Delete testers from TestFlight ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/delete-testers-from-testflight) [
    * Test an App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-an-app-clip-experience) [
    * Test iPhone and iPad apps on Macs with Apple silicon ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-macs-with-apple-silicon) [
    * Test iPhone and iPad apps on Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Testing subscriptions and in-app purchases in TestFlight ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/testing-subscriptions-and-in-app-purchases-in-testflight)
  * Manage submissions to App Review

[

    * Overview of submitting for review ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/overview-of-submitting-for-review) [
    * Submit an app ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-app) [
    * Submit an in-app purchase ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-in-app-purchase) [
    * Submit Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Submit a custom product page ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-a-custom-product-page) [
    * Submit an In-App Event ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-in-app-event) [
    * Remove a submission from review ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/remove-a-submission-from-review) [
    * Reply to App Review messages ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/reply-to-app-review-messages) [
    * Manage a submission with unresolved issues ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/manage-a-submission-with-unresolved-issues) [
    * Upload a geographic coverage file ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/upload-a-geographic-coverage-file)
  * Manage your app's availability

[

    * Overview of publishing your app on the App Store ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/overview-of-publishing-your-app-on-the-app-store) [
    * Manage availability for your app on the App Store ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-for-your-app-on-the-app-store) [
    * Set distribution methods ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/set-distribution-methods) [
    * Publish for pre-order ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/publish-for-pre-order) [
    * Select an App Store version release option ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/select-an-app-store-version-release-option) [
    * Manage availability of iPhone and iPad apps on Macs with Apple silicon ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-of-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-macs-with-apple-silicon) [
    * Manage availability of iPhone and iPad apps on Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-of-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Make a version unavailable for download ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/make-a-version-unavailable-for-download) [
    * View app status history ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/view-app-status-history)
  * Manage app pricing

[

    * Set a price ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price) [
    * Schedule price changes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/schedule-price-changes)
  * Update your app

[

    * Create a new version ](/help/app-store-connect/update-your-app/create-a-new-version) [
    * Release a version update in phases ](/help/app-store-connect/update-your-app/release-a-version-update-in-phases)
  * Manage featuring nominations

[

    * Nominate your app for featuring ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-featuring-nominations/nominate-your-app-for-featuring)
  * Monitor ratings and reviews

[

    * Ratings and reviews overview ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/ratings-and-reviews-overview) [
    * View ratings and reviews ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/view-ratings-and-reviews) [
    * Respond to reviews ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/respond-to-reviews) [
    * Reset an app overview rating ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/reset-an-app-overview-rating)
  * Measure app performance

[

    * Overview of reporting tools ](/help/app-store-connect/measure-app-performance/overview-of-reporting-tools) [
    * Differences in reporting tools ](/help/app-store-connect/measure-app-performance/differences-in-reporting-tools)
  * View App Analytics

[

    * View app metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-app-metrics) [
    * View App Clip metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-app-clip-metrics) [
    * View In-App Event metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-in-app-event-metrics) [
    * View acquisition sources ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-acquisition-sources) [
    * Manage campaigns ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/manage-campaigns) [
    * Measure app retention ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/measure-app-retention) [
    * View product page optimization results ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-product-page-optimization-results) [
    * View peer group benchmarks ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-peer-group-benchmarks) [
    * Download App Analytics Reports ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/download-app-analytics-reports)
  * View Sales and Trends

[

    * View units, proceeds, sales, and pre-orders ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/view-units-proceeds-sales-and-pre-orders) [
    * View subscription data ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/view-subscription-data) [
    * Download and view reports ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/download-and-view-reports)
  * Transfer an app

[

    * Overview of app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/overview-of-app-transfer) [
    * App transfer criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/app-transfer-criteria) [
    * Initiate an app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/initiate-an-app-transfer) [
    * Accept an app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/accept-an-app-transfer)
  * Manage agreements

[

    * Sign and update agreements ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-agreements/sign-and-update-agreements) [
    * View agreements status ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-agreements/view-agreements-status)
  * Manage banking information

[

    * Enter banking information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-banking-information/enter-banking-information)
  * Manage tax information

[

    * Provide tax information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information) [
    * Provide tax information for business-to-business status ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-business-to-business-status) [
    * Provide tax information for alternative payment options ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-alternative-payment-options) [
    * Provide tax information for Core Technology Fee ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-core-technology-fee) [
    * Manage invoices and other tax documents ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/manage-invoices-and-other-tax-documents)
  * Manage compliance information

[

    * Manage European Union Digital Services Act trader requirements ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/manage-european-union-digital-services-act-trader-requirements) [
    * View Mainland China compliance information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/view-mainland-china-compliance-information) [
    * Manage Korea compliance information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/manage-korea-compliance-information)
  * Getting paid

[

    * Overview of receiving payments ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/overview-of-receiving-payments) [
    * View payments and proceeds ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/view-payments-and-proceeds) [
    * Download financial reports ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/download-financial-reports)
  * Making payments to Apple

[

    * Overview of making payments to Apple ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/overview-of-making-payments-to-apple) [
    * Update your account for invoicing requirements ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/update-your-account-for-invoicing-requirements) [
    * Understanding taxes ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/understanding-taxes) [
    * Invoice fields ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/invoice-fields)
  * Understanding the Core Technology Fee

[

    * Core Technology Fee overview ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/core-technology-fee-overview) [
    * Estimate fees for alternative business terms ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/estimate-fees-for-alternative-business-terms) [
    * Measure your first annual installs ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/measure-your-first-annual-installs) [
    * Core Technology Fee report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/core-technology-fee-report-fields)
  * Offer promo codes

[

    * Request and manage promo codes ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-promo-codes/request-and-manage-promo-codes)
  * Offer App Clip experiences

[

    * Overview of App Clips ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/overview-of-app-clips) [
    * Offer a default App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/offer-a-default-app-clip-experience) [
    * Offer an advanced App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/offer-an-advanced-app-clip-experience) [
    * Generate App Clip codes ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/generate-app-clip-codes) [
    * Manage an App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/manage-an-app-clip-experience) [
    * View domain URL status ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/view-domain-url-status)
  * Create custom product pages

[

    * Configure multiple product page versions ](/help/app-store-connect/create-custom-product-pages/configure-multiple-product-page-versions)
  * Create product page optimization tests

[

    * Overview of product page optimization ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/overview-of-product-page-optimization) [
    * Create a test ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/create-a-test) [
    * Configure test treatments ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/configure-test-treatments) [
    * Run a test ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/run-a-test) [
    * Apply a test treatment to your product page ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/apply-a-test-treatment-to-your-product-page)
  * Offer In-App Events

[

    * Overview of In-App Events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/overview-of-in-app-events) [
    * Offer In-App Events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/offer-in-app-events) [
    * Manage events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/manage-events)
  * Configure in-app purchase settings

[

    * Overview for configuring in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/overview-for-configuring-in-app-purchases) [
    * Generate keys for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/generate-keys-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Generate a shared secret to verify receipts ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/generate-a-shared-secret-to-verify-receipts) [
    * Enter server URLs for App Store Server Notifications ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/enter-server-urls-for-app-store-server-notifications) [
    * Set a tax category for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/set-a-tax-category-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Turn on Family Sharing for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/turn-on-family-sharing-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Promote in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/promote-in-app-purchases)
  * Manage in-app purchases

[

    * Create consumable or non-consumable in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/create-consumable-or-non-consumable-in-app-purchases) [
    * Create non-renewing subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/create-non-renewing-subscriptions) [
    * View and edit in-app purchase information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/view-and-edit-in-app-purchase-information) [
    * Set a price for an in-app purchase ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/set-a-price-for-an-in-app-purchase) [
    * Schedule price changes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/schedule-price-changes) [
    * Set availability for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/set-availability-for-in-app-purchases)
  * Manage subscriptions

[

    * Offer auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/offer-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set availability for an auto-renewable subscription ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-availability-for-an-auto-renewable-subscription) [
    * Manage pricing for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/manage-pricing-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up introductory offers for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-introductory-offers-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up promotional offers for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-promotional-offers-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up offer codes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-offer-codes) [
    * Set up win-back offers ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-win-back-offers) [
    * Manage Streamlined Purchasing ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/manage-streamlined-purchasing) [
    * Enable billing grace period for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/enable-billing-grace-period-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions)
  * Test in-app purchases

[

    * Overview of testing in sandbox ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/overview-of-testing-in-sandbox) [
    * Create Sandbox Apple Account ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/create-a-sandbox-apple-account) [
    * Manage Sandbox Apple Account settings ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/manage-sandbox-apple-account-settings)
  * Configure Game Center

[

    * Overview of Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-game-center) [
    * Manage leaderboards ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-leaderboards) [
    * Manage leaderboard sets ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-leaderboard-sets) [
    * Manage achievements ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-achievements) [
    * Manage challenges ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-challenges) [
    * Manage activities ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-activities) [
    * Overview of Game Center groups ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-game-center-groups) [
    * Manage groups ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-groups) [
    * Overview of testing Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-testing-game-center) [
    * Remove leaderboard test data ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/remove-leaderboard-test-data) [
    * Manage an app version for Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-an-app-version-for-game-center) [
    * Add Game Center components to an app version ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/add-game-center-components-to-an-app-version) [
    * Add multiplayer compatibility ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/add-multiplayer-compatibility) [
    * Manage scores and players ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-scores-and-players)
  * Managing alternative distribution

[

    * Manage distribution on an alternative app marketplace ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/manage-distribution-on-an-alternative-app-marketplace) [
    * Get an alternative distribution package ID ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/get-an-alternative-distribution-package-id) [
    * Submit for Notarization ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/submit-for-notarization) [
    * Create a marketplace app ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/create-a-marketplace-app)
  * Reference

[

    * App information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-information) [
    * Platform version information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/platform-version-information) [
    * App privacy ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-privacy) [
    * Age ratings values and definitions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/age-ratings-values-and-definitions) [
    * Provide app motion information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/provide-app-motion-information) [
    * Required, localizable, and editable properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/required-localizable-and-editable-properties) [
    * App bundle information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-bundle-information) [
    * App pricing and availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-pricing-and-availability) [
    * App and submission statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-and-submission-statuses) [
    * App build statuses  ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-build-statuses) [
    * Build upload statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/build-upload-statuses) [
    * Apple-hosted asset pack statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-hosted-asset-pack-statuses) [
    * App Store localizations ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-store-localizations) [
    * App Store pricing and availability start times by country or region ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-store-pricing-and-availability-start-times-by-country-or-region) [
    * App Sandbox information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-sandbox-information) [
    * Maximum build file sizes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/maximum-build-file-sizes) [
    * Apple-hosted asset pack size limits ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-hosted-asset-pack-size-limits) [
    * On-demand resources size limits ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/on-demand-resources-size-limits) [
    * Compliance review ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/compliance-review) [
    * Export compliance documentation for encryption ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/export-compliance-documentation-for-encryption) [
    * TestFlight tester information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/testflight-tester-information) [
    * Beta tester feedback ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/beta-tester-feedback) [
    * App preview specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-preview-specifications) [
    * Screenshot specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/screenshot-specifications) [
    * Role permissions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/role-permissions) [
    * User notifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/user-notifications) [
    * Generate catalog reports ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/generate-catalog-reports) [
    * App catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-catalog-report) [
    * Game Center achievement catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-center-achievement-catalog-report) [
    * Game Center leaderboard catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-center-leaderboard-catalog-report) [
    * In-app purchases catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchases-catalog-report) [
    * In-app purchase types ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-types) [
    * In-app purchase information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-information) [
    * Auto-renewable subscription information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/auto-renewable-subscription-information) [
    * In-app purchase and subscriptions pricing and availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-and-subscriptions-pricing-and-availability) [
    * In-app purchase statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-statuses) [
    * In-app purchase localization statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-localization-statuses) [
    * Auto-renewable subscription price increase thresholds ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/auto-renewable-subscription-price-increase-thresholds) [
    * Consent for subscription offer conversions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/consent-for-subscription-offer-conversions) [
    * In-App Event statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-statuses) [
    * In-App Event badges ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-badges) [
    * In-App Event media specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-media-and-audio-specifications) [
    * Nominations template ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/nominations-template) [
    * Leaderboards ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/leaderboards) [
    * Achievements ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/achievements) [
    * Challenges ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/challenges) [
    * Game activities ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-activities) [
    * Group properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/group-properties) [
    * App version properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-version-properties) [
    * App metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-metrics) [
    * App Clip metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-clip-metrics) [
    * In-App Event metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-metrics) [
    * Performance metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/performance-metrics) [
    * App analytics filters and dimensions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-analytics-filters-and-dimensions) [
    * Product page optimization metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/product-page-optimization-metrics) [
    * Payment information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/payment-information) [
    * Financial report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/financial-report-fields) [
    * Transaction tax report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/transaction-tax-report-fields) [
    * Apple legal entities ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-legal-entities) [
    * Currency codes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/currency-codes) [
    * Financial report regions and currencies ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/financial-report-regions-and-currencies) [
    * Minimum payment threshold ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/minimum-payment-threshold) [
    * Summary Sales Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/summary-sales-report) [
    * Sales Events Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-events-report) [
    * Pre-Order Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/pre-order-report) [
    * Subscription Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-report) [
    * Subscription Event Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-event-report) [
    * Subscriber Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscriber-report) [
    * Subscription Offer Redemption Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-offer-redemption-report) [
    * Win-back eligibility report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/win-back-eligibility-report) [
    * Report file names ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/report-file-names) [
    * Subscription events ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-events) [
    * Promotional codes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/promotional-codes) [
    * Product type identifiers ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/product-type-identifiers) [
    * Cancellation reasons ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/cancellation-reasons) [
    * Sales and Trends metrics and dimensions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-and-trends-metrics-and-dimensions) [
    * Sales and Trends reports availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-and-trends-reports-availability) [
    * Banking information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/banking-information) [
    * Store Services tiers ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/store-services-tiers) 

Filter ⌘K

Manage app pricing

# Set a price

In order to offer paid content on the App Store, your membership Account
Holder will need to accept the Paid Apps Agreement in the Tax and Banking
section of App Store Connect. If the most recent version of this agreement
hasn’t been accepted, you can only offer your app for free.

You’ll need to set pricing for your app before you submit it for review.
Choose from up to 800 price points by default, and [request to
access](/contact/request/app-store-higher-price-points/) an additional 100
higher price points (up to $10,000).

You can set a price for the country or region you’re familiar with as the
basis for automatically generating prices across the other 174 storefronts and
43 currencies. Automatically generated prices account for foreign exchange
rates and certain taxes, and follow the most common pricing convention for
each country or region.

Periodically, Apple updates prices in certain regions based on changes in
taxes and foreign exchange rates. This is done using publicly available
exchange rate information from financial data providers. These automatic price
adjustments help ensure that your app’s price across all storefronts stays
equalized with your base country or region. Automatic price updates help your
global earnings stay consistent, customers aren’t incentivized to seek lower
prices on certain storefronts, and pricing mistakes are reduced. Apple will
never change the price in your base country or region, and will always notify
you in advance of changes on other storefronts.

Alternatively, you can choose to manually manage certain storefronts or you
can manually manage them all. Keep in mind that you'll be responsible for
staying up to date with taxes and exchange rates in the storefronts you
manually manage.

**Required role:** Account Holder, Admin, or App Manager. [View role
permissions.](/help/app-store-connect/reference/role-permissions)

### Set a price for your app

  1. In Apps, select the app you want to view.

  2. In the sidebar, under Monetization, click Pricing and Availability.

  3. In the Price Schedule section, click Add Pricing.

![Screenshot of the Pricing and Availability page, where the Price Schedule
section has the Add Pricing button.](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-
pricing/set-a-price/images/my-apps-set-price_2x.png)

  4. Select a base country or region. Apple uses this base to provide comparable prices on the other 174 storefronts. Prices for your base country or region won’t be adjusted by Apple as taxes and foreign exchange rates change. You can change this base configuration later at any time.

  5. Select a price for your base country or region, then click Next. Initially, the list displays 25 price points that follow the most common pricing convention for each country or region. To view more price points, scroll to the end of the menu and click See Additional Prices. You can choose from up to 800 price points by default. You can also submit a request to access an additional 100 higher price points.

![Screenshot of the App Pricing dialog, where there are pull-down menus for
the Base Country or Region section and the Price section. The pull down menu
under the Price”section is open, listing a few price points. At the bottom of
the dialog, there are the Cancel and Next buttons on the right.](/help/app-
store-connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price/images/my-apps-set-
price-2_2x.png)

  6. A screen appears with comparable prices for all other storefronts. If you’d like Apple to automatically adjust prices for you, don’t make any changes to this pricing. Alternatively, you can choose different prices for individual countries or regions. If you select your own prices, Apple won’t adjust your pricing on those storefronts in the future.

![Screenshot of the Country or Region Prices dialog, which has comparable
prices for all other countries or regions that are listed. Each prices are
editable. At the bottom of the dialog, the Back button is on the left, and the
Cancel and Next buttons are on the right.](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-
pricing/set-a-price/images/my-apps-set-price-3_2x.png)

  7. Click Next.

  8. Review your upcoming price, then click Confirm.

![Screenshot of the Confirm App Pricing dialog, which has prices for all
countries or regions that are listed. At the bottom of the dialog, the Back
button is on the left, and the Cancel and Confirm buttons are on the
right.](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price/images/my-apps-
set-price-4_2x.png)

### Edit your app’s base country or region

When you update your app’s base country or region, its associated in-app
purchases automatically inherit its base country or region (unless you already
edited their pricing or base country or region separately). The resulting
price update for your app goes into effect immediately.

  1. In Apps, select the app you want to review.

  2. In the sidebar, under Monetization, click Pricing and Availability.

  3. In the Price Schedule section under Base Country or Region, click Edit.

  4. Changing your base country or region deletes any scheduled price changes. Review any scheduled price changes, select the box indicating you understand they’ll be permanently deleted, and click Edit.

![Screenshots of the Edit Base Country or Region dialog includes a checkbox
with an acknowledgment statement about changing the base country or region,
and two sections listing the current price and end date for 2 countries or
regions and 173 countries or regions. At the bottom of the dialog, the Cancel
button is on the left, and the Edit button is on the right.](/help/app-store-
connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price/images/edit-your-apps-base-country-or-
region_2x.png)

  5. Select a base country or region. Apple uses this as the base to provide comparable prices on the other 174 storefronts. As taxes and foreign exchange rates change, prices on the other storefronts will be automatically updated by Apple periodically. You can change this base configuration later at any time.

![Screenshot of the Edit Base Country or Region? dialog, where there are pull-
down menus for the Base Country or Region section and the Price section. At
the bottom of the dialog, the Cancel and Next buttons are on the
right.](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price/images/edit-
your-apps-base-country-or-region-2_2x.png)

  6. Select a price for your base country or region, then click Next. Initially, the list displays 25 price points that follow the most common pricing convention for each country or region. To view more price points, scroll to the end of the menu and click See Additional Prices. You can choose from up to 800 price points by default. You may also submit a request to access an additional 100 higher price points.

![Screenshot of the Edit Base Country or Region? dialog, where there are pull-
down menus for the Base Country or Region section and the Price section. The
pull down menu under the Price section is open, listing a few price points. At
the bottom of the dialog, the Cancel and Next buttons are on the
right.](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price/images/edit-
your-apps-base-country-or-region-3_2x.png)

  7. A screen appears with comparable prices for all other countries or regions based on taxes and foreign exchange rates. If you’d like Apple to automatically adjust prices for you, don’t make any changes to this pricing. Alternatively, you can choose different prices for individual countries or regions. If you select your own prices, Apple won’t adjust your pricing on those storefronts in the future.

![Screenshot of the Country or Region Prices dialog, which has comparable
prices for all other countries or regions are listed. Each prices are
editable. At the bottom of the dialog, the Back button is on the left, and the
Cancel and Next buttons are on the right.](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-
pricing/set-a-price/images/edit-your-apps-base-country-or-region-4_2x.png)

  8. Click Next.

  9. Review your upcoming changes, then click Confirm.

![Screenshot of  the Confirm App Pricing dialog, where the prices for all
other countries or regions are listed. At the bottom of the dialog, the Back
button is on the left, and the Cancel and Next buttons are on the
right.](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price/images/edit-
your-apps-base-country-or-region-5_2x.png)

**Related** [Overview of publishing your app on the App Store](/help/app-
store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/overview-of-publishing-your-app-
on-the-app-store) [In-app purchase and subscriptions pricing and
availability](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-and-
subscriptions-pricing-and-availability)

