# App Store Small Business Program

Propel your small business forward with the next generation of groundbreaking
apps on the App Store and invest more resources into your business.

![](/app-store/small-business-program/images/hero-grpahic_2x.png)

## How it works

The App Store Small Business Program is designed to accelerate innovation and
help propel your small business forward with the next generation of
groundbreaking apps on the App Store. It features a reduced commission rate of
15% on paid apps and In-App Purchases, so you can invest more resources into
your business to continue building quality apps that customers love.

### The basics

  * Existing developers who made up to 1 million USD in proceeds in the prior calendar year for all their apps, as well as developers new to the App Store, can qualify for the program and the reduced commission.
  * If a participating developer surpasses the 1 million USD threshold in the current calendar year, the standard commission rate will apply to future sales.
  * If a developer’s proceeds fall below the 1 million USD threshold in a future calendar year, they can re-qualify for the 15% commission the year after.
  * Developers must identify any Associated Developer Accounts to determine proceeds eligibility.

### Associated Developer Accounts

To ensure that all participants are fully eligible as small businesses, you’ll
need to list all of your Associated Developer Accounts when you sign up for
this program. An Associated Developer Account is an Apple Developer Program
account that you own or control or an Apple Developer Program account that
owns or controls your account. For additional information, see the FAQs below.

### Proceeds eligibility

To participate in the program, you and your Associated Developer Accounts must
have earned no more than 1 million USD in total proceeds (sales net of Apple’s
commission and certain taxes and adjustments) during the 12 fiscal months
occurring within the previous calendar year, and have earned no more than 1
million USD during the current year. When an app is transferred, proceeds for
the calendar year will be associated with all accounts that initiate or accept
the transfer of that app. For additional information, see the FAQs below.

## How to enroll

The vast majority of developers on the App Store who sell digital goods and
services are eligible — simply complete a few steps to enroll.

To enroll, you’ll need to:

  * Be an Account Holder in the [Apple Developer Program](/programs/),
  * Review and accept the latest Paid Apps agreement (Schedule 2 to the Apple Developer Program License Agreement) in [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/), and
  * If applicable, list all of your Associated Developer Accounts.

![](/app-store/small-business-program/images/girl_2x.webp)

### Get started today.

[Enroll now](/app-store/small-business-program/enroll/)

## Q&A

### When will my adjusted proceeds go into effect?

Your proceeds will be adjusted fifteen (15) days after the end of the fiscal
calendar month in which your enrollment is approved. For example, if your
enrollment is approved on February 10, 2022, your proceeds are adjusted
starting March 14, 2022.

### How do I estimate whether I’m eligible for the program based on my
proceeds?

Your eligibility is based on your total App Store proceeds converted into
United States dollars (USD) in the prior calendar year. Proceeds are your
sales net of Apple’s commission and certain taxes and adjustments. To estimate
your proceeds, use the payments deposited into your bank account and your tax
and adjustment details in App Store Connect.

  * **If your bank account currency is in USD.** Add the total App Store payments deposited into your bank account in the prior calendar year. Then modify that amount with any taxes and adjustments from the Payments and Financial Reports section of App Store Connect. For taxes and adjustments in other currencies, use the USD exchange rate shown in App Store Connect for each month.
  * **If your bank account currency is not in USD.** You’ll need to convert your App Store payments deposited into your bank account in the prior calendar year into USD. Use a publicly available exchange rate that corresponds with the end of each fiscal month in [Apple’s fiscal calendar](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/WebObjects/iTunesConnect.woa/wa/jumpTo?page=fiscalcalendar) to calculate your total USD proceeds. Then modify the total USD amount with any taxes and adjustments from the Payments and Financial Reports section of App Store Connect.

Make sure to add the proceeds for any Associated Developer Accounts.

### Why do I need to list my Associated Developer Accounts?

The App Store Small Business Program is intended for small businesses and
individual developers. If your organization controls other Apple Developer
Program accounts or is controlled by another account that sells digital goods
and services on the App Store, the collective proceeds from these related
organizations must not exceed the 1 million USD threshold in order to qualify
for the program.

### How do I know if I have an Associated Developer Account?

As the individual or legal entity who accepted the Apple Developer Program
License Agreement, you have an Associated Developer Account if any of the
following apply:

  * You have majority (over 50%) corporate, individual, or partnership interest in the ownership or shares of another Apple Developer Program account.
  * Another Apple Developer Program member has majority (over 50%) corporate, individual, or partnership interest in the ownership or shares of your account.
  * You have ultimate decision-making authority over another Apple Developer Program account.
  * Another Apple Developer Program member has ultimate decision-making authority over your account.

### What details about my Associated Developer Account will I need to provide?

In addition to stating how many Associated Developer Accounts you have, you
must provide the following details for each account:

  * Name (individual or organization)
  * Team ID
  * Account Holder email address
  * Description of relationship between you and the account

### Can I participate in the Small Business Program if I’m on the alternative
terms in the EU?

For developers on the [alternative terms in the EU](/support/dma-and-apps-in-
the-eu) in the App Store Small Business Program and for subscriptions after
their first year, Apple will offer a further reduced commission of 10%.

### How do app transfers impact my participation in the program?

App transfers are allowed. However, when an app is transferred, the proceeds
for the calendar year will be associated with all accounts that initiate or
accept the transfer of that app. Program eligibility is based on total
proceeds from all Associated Developer Accounts and transferred apps.

### If I have additional questions who should I contact?

Apple Developer Support can help. Receive guidance by phone or email by
[contacting us](/contact/topic/SC1101/subtopic/30006/solution/select/).

