This is documentation for React Native **0.80** , which is no longer in active
development.

For up-to-date documentation, see the **[latest version](/docs/components-and-
apis)** (0.81).

Version: 0.80

On this page

# Core Components and APIs

React Native provides a number of built-in [Core Components](/docs/0.80/intro-
react-native-components) ready for you to use in your app. You can find them
all in the left sidebar (or menu above, if you are on a narrow screen). If
you're not sure where to get started, take a look at the following categories:

  * [Basic Components](/docs/0.80/components-and-apis#basic-components)
  * [User Interface](/docs/0.80/components-and-apis#user-interface)
  * [List Views](/docs/0.80/components-and-apis#list-views)
  * [Android-specific](/docs/0.80/components-and-apis#android-components-and-apis)
  * [iOS-specific](/docs/0.80/components-and-apis#ios-components-and-apis)
  * [Others](/docs/0.80/components-and-apis#others)

You're not limited to the components and APIs bundled with React Native. React
Native has a community of thousands of developers. If you're looking for a
library that does something specific, please refer to [this guide about
finding libraries](/docs/0.80/libraries#finding-libraries).

## Basic Components​

Most apps will end up using one or more of these basic components.

### [ViewThe most fundamental component for building a UI.](./view)

### [TextA component for displaying text.](./text)

### [ImageA component for displaying images.](./image)

### [TextInputA component for inputting text into the app via a
keyboard.](./textinput)

### [PressableA wrapper component that can detect various stages of press
interactions on any of its children.](./pressable)

### [ScrollViewProvides a scrolling container that can host multiple
components and views.](./scrollview)

### [StyleSheetProvides an abstraction layer similar to CSS
stylesheets.](./stylesheet)

## User Interface​

These common user interface controls will render on any platform.

### [ButtonA basic button component for handling touches that should render
nicely on any platform.](./button)

### [SwitchRenders a boolean input.](./switch)

## List Views​

Unlike the more generic [`ScrollView`](/docs/0.80/scrollview), the following
list view components only render elements that are currently showing on the
screen. This makes them a performant choice for displaying long lists of data.

### [FlatListA component for rendering performant scrollable
lists.](./flatlist)

### [SectionListLike `FlatList`, but for sectioned lists.](./sectionlist)

## Android Components and APIs​

Many of the following components provide wrappers for commonly used Android
classes.

### [BackHandlerDetect hardware button presses for back
navigation.](./backhandler)

### [DrawerLayoutAndroidRenders a `DrawerLayout` on
Android.](./drawerlayoutandroid)

### [PermissionsAndroidProvides access to the permissions model introduced in
Android M.](./permissionsandroid)

### [ToastAndroidCreate an Android Toast alert.](./toastandroid)

## iOS Components and APIs​

Many of the following components provide wrappers for commonly used UIKit
classes.

### [ActionSheetIOSAPI to display an iOS action sheet or share
sheet.](./actionsheetios)

## Others​

These components may be useful for certain applications. For an exhaustive
list of components and APIs, check out the sidebar to the left (or menu above,
if you are on a narrow screen).

### [ActivityIndicatorDisplays a circular loading
indicator.](./activityindicator)

### [AlertLaunches an alert dialog with the specified title and
message.](./alert)

### [AnimatedA library for creating fluid, powerful animations that are easy
to build and maintain.](./animated)

### [DimensionsProvides an interface for getting device
dimensions.](./dimensions)

### [KeyboardAvoidingViewProvides a view that moves out of the way of the
virtual keyboard automatically.](./keyboardavoidingview)

### [LinkingProvides a general interface to interact with both incoming and
outgoing app links.](./linking)

### [ModalProvides a simple way to present content above an enclosing
view.](./modal)

### [PixelRatioProvides access to the device pixel density.](./pixelratio)

### [RefreshControlThis component is used inside a `ScrollView` to add pull to
refresh functionality.](./refreshcontrol)

### [StatusBarComponent to control the app status bar.](./statusbar)

[Edit page for next release](https://github.com/facebook/react-native-
website/edit/main/docs/components-and-apis.md)[Edit page for 0.80
release](https://github.com/facebook/react-native-
website/edit/main/website/versioned_docs/version-0.80/components-and-apis.md)

Last updated on **Aug 19, 2025**

[ NextActivityIndicator](/docs/0.80/activityindicator)

  * Basic Components
  * User Interface
  * List Views
  * Android Components and APIs
  * iOS Components and APIs
  * Others

