  * [ AVFoundation ](/documentation/avfoundation)
  * [ Capture setup ](/documentation/avfoundation/capture-setup)
  * Capturing cinematic video 

Sample Code

# Capturing cinematic video

Capture video with an adjustable depth of field and focus points.

[ Download ](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/b444cc630428/CapturingCinematicVideo.zip)

iOS 26.0+iPadOS 26.0+Xcode 26.0+

## [Overview](/documentation/AVFoundation/capturing-cinematic-video#Overview)

Note

This sample code project is associated with WWDC25 session 319: [Capture
cinematic video in your
app](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/319).

### [Configure the sample code project](/documentation/AVFoundation/capturing-
cinematic-video#Configure-the-sample-code-project)

Because Simulator doesn’t have access to access device cameras, you’ll need to
run this sample app on an iOS device with iOS 26 or later installed.

## [See Also](/documentation/AVFoundation/capturing-cinematic-video#see-also)

### [Capture sessions](/documentation/AVFoundation/capturing-cinematic-
video#Capture-sessions)

[Setting Up a Capture Session](/documentation/avfoundation/setting-up-a-
capture-session)

Configure input devices, output media, preview views, and basic settings
before capturing photos or video.

[Accessing the camera while multitasking on
iPad](/documentation/AVKit/accessing-the-camera-while-multitasking-on-ipad)

Operate the camera in Split View, Slide Over, Picture in Picture, and Stage
Manager modes.

[AVCam: Building a camera app](/documentation/avfoundation/avcam-building-a-
camera-app)

Capture photos and record video using the front and rear iPhone and iPad
cameras.

[AVMultiCamPiP: Capturing from Multiple
Cameras](/documentation/avfoundation/avmulticampip-capturing-from-multiple-
cameras)

Simultaneously record the output from the front and back cameras into a single
movie file by using a multi-camera capture session.

[AVCamBarcode: Detecting Barcodes and
Faces](/documentation/avfoundation/avcambarcode-detecting-barcodes-and-faces)

Identify machine readable codes or faces by using the camera.

[`class AVCaptureSession`](/documentation/avfoundation/avcapturesession)

An object that configures capture behavior and coordinates the flow of data
from input devices to capture outputs.

[`class
AVCaptureMultiCamSession`](/documentation/avfoundation/avcapturemulticamsession)

A capture session that supports simultaneous capture from multiple inputs of
the same media type.

[`class AVCaptureInput`](/documentation/avfoundation/avcaptureinput)

An abstract superclass for objects that provide input data to a capture
session.

[`class AVCaptureOutput`](/documentation/avfoundation/avcaptureoutput)

An abstract superclass for objects that provide media output destinations for
a capture session.

[`class AVCaptureConnection`](/documentation/avfoundation/avcaptureconnection)

An object that represents a connection from a capture input to a capture
output.

