# Create amazing apps that run everywhere

Build one JavaScript/TypeScript project that runs natively on all your users'
devices.

##  Quick Start

Terminal

Copy

`- ``npx create-expo-app@latest`

Then continue [setting up your environment](/get-started/set-up-your-
environment).

## Create a universal Android, iOS, and web app

[Start Tutorial](/tutorial/introduction)

##

Launch to app stores

Ship apps with zero config or no prior experience. Launch easily guides you
through the technical stuff, directly from GitHub. No config or prior
knowledge needed.

[Try Launch](https://launch.expo.dev/)

### Deploy from CLI

Deploy your apps using command-line tools for iOS and web platforms.

##  Deploy to TestFlight

Terminal

Copy

`- ``npx testflight`

This is an iOS-only command that will upload your app to TestFlight.

##  Deploy your web app

Terminal

Copy

`- ``npx eas-cli deploy`

For prerequisites and complete instructions, see [our
guide](/deploy/web#export-your-web-project/).

### Discover more

Try out Expo in minutes and learn how to get the most out of Expo.

## Speed up your development with Expo Application Services

[Start EAS Tutorial](/tutorial/eas/introduction)

## Discover the benefits of file-based routing with Expo Router

[Learn More](/router/introduction)

### Try Expo in your browser

Expo's Snack lets you try Expo with zero local setup.

[Create a Snack](https://snack.expo.dev/)

### Chat with the community

Join over 50,000 other developers  
on the Expo Community Discord.

[Go to Discord](https://chat.expo.dev)

### Explore APIs

Expo supplies a vast array of SDK modules. You can also create your own.

[Image](/versions/latest/sdk/image)[Camera](/versions/latest/sdk/camera)[Notifications](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications)[View
all APIs](/versions/latest)

### Explore examples

Explore a variety of example projects showcasing how to use Expo and
seamlessly integrate it with popular services.

[StickerSmash](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/stickersmash)[Router
+ menus](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-router-menus)[API
Routes + Open AI](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-
openai)[View all examples](https://github.com/expo/examples)

### Watch our latest talks

Explore our team's presentations. Stay informed and gain expertise.

[See More Talks](/additional-resources#talks)

[Keynote: streamline React Native developmentCharlie Cheever, Jon SampApp.js
Conf 2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lnxanzsP1rM)[Deploy Everywhere with
Expo RouterEvan BaconApp.js Conf
2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GKQ_0VfYweg)[Embracing Native Code and
CapabilitiesKeith KurakApp.js Conf
2025](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLoHua8bzPg)[Launching Desktop Apps to
Orbit with React NativeGabriel DonadelApp.js Conf
2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7yC3JKfWYU)

### Join the community

See the source code, connect with others, and get connected.

[Discord and ForumsJoin our Discord to chat, ask questions or attend
events.](https://chat.expo.dev)[GitHubView SDK and docs code, submit a PR, or
report an issue.](https://github.com/expo/expo)[YouTubeFollow our channel to
explore tutorials and other
content.](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCx_YiR733cfqVPRsQ1n8Fag)[LinkedInFollow
Expo on LinkedIn for news and updates.](https://www.linkedin.com/company/expo-
dev/)[BlueskyFollow Expo on Bluesky for news and
updates.](https://bsky.app/profile/expo.dev)[XFollow Expo on X for news and
updates.](https://x.com/expo)[RedditGet the latest on
r/expo.](https://www.reddit.com/r/expo)[CannyGive us a feedback or request a
feature.](https://expo.canny.io/)

