### [App Store Connect Help ](/help/app-store-connect/)

[App Store Connect](/help/app-store-connect/) / Getting paid / Download
financial reports

Filter âŒ˜K

  * [
  * Release notes ](/help/app-store-connect/release-notes/)
  * Get started

[

    * App Store Connect homepage ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-homepage) [
    * App Store Connect workflow ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-workflow) [
    * App Store Connect for iPhone and iPad ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-for-iphone-and-ipad) [
    * App Store Connect API ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-api)
  * Manage your team

[

    * Overview of accounts and roles ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/overview-of-accounts-and-roles) [
    * Add and edit users ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/add-and-edit-users) [
    * Edit access to apps ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/edit-access-to-apps) [
    * View and edit your profile ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/view-and-edit-your-profile) [
    * Manage webhooks ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/manage-webhooks)
  * Create an app record

[

    * Add a new app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-a-new-app) [
    * Set your developer name ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/set-your-developer-name) [
    * View and edit app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/view-and-edit-app-information) [
    * Add watchOS app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-watchos-app-information) [
    * Add iMessage app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-imessage-app-information) [
    * Add platforms ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-platforms) [
    * Create and submit app bundles ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/create-and-submit-app-bundles) [
    * Edit app bundle information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/edit-app-bundle-information) [
    * Remove an app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/remove-an-app) [
    * Edit access to an app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/edit-access-to-an-app)
  * Manage builds

[

    * Upload builds ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/upload-builds) [
    * View builds and metadata ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/view-builds-and-metadata) [
    * Choose a build to submit ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/choose-a-build-to-submit)
  * Manage asset packs

[

    * Overview of Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-asset-packs/overview-of-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Upload Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-asset-packs/upload-apple-hosted-asset-packs)
  * Manage app information

[

    * Set an app age rating ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-an-app-age-rating) [
    * Manage app tags ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/manage-app-tags) [
    * Set the app motion information for Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-the-app-motion-information-for-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Provide a custom license agreement ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/provide-a-custom-license-agreement) [
    * Localize app information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/localize-app-information) [
    * Manage app privacy ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/manage-app-privacy) [
    * Set a tax category ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-a-tax-category) [
    * Overview of export compliance ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/overview-of-export-compliance) [
    * Determine and upload app encryption documentation ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/determine-and-upload-app-encryption-documentation) [
    * Add an app icon ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/add-an-app-icon) [
    * Upload app previews and screenshots ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/upload-app-previews-and-screenshots) [
    * Set an app preview poster frame ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-an-app-preview-poster-frame) [
    * Remove app previews or screenshots ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/remove-app-previews-or-screenshots)
  * Manage app accessibility

[

    * Overview of Accessibility Nutrition Labels ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/overview-of-accessibility-nutrition-labels) [
    * VoiceOver evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/voiceover-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Voice Control evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/voice-control-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Larger Text evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/larger-text-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Dark Interface evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/dark-interface-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Differentiate Without Color Alone evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/differentiate-without-color-alone-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Sufficient Contrast evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/sufficient-contrast-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Reduced Motion evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/reduced-motion-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Captions evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/captions-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Audio Descriptions evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/audio-descriptions-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Manage Accessibility Nutrition Labels ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/manage-accessibility-nutrition-labels)
  * Test a beta version

[

    * TestFlight Overview ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/testflight-overview) [
    * Provide test information ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/provide-test-information) [
    * Add internal testers ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/add-internal-testers) [
    * Invite external testers ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/invite-external-testers) [
    * View and manage tester information ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-and-manage-tester-information) [
    * View tester feedback ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-tester-feedback) [
    * Add testers to builds ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/add-testers-to-builds) [
    * View build status and metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-build-status-and-metrics) [
    * Stop testing a build ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/stop-testing-a-build) [
    * Provide export compliance information for beta builds ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/provide-export-compliance-information-for-beta-builds) [
    * Test Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Remove testers from a group ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/remove-testers-from-a-group) [
    * Delete testers from TestFlight ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/delete-testers-from-testflight) [
    * Test an App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-an-app-clip-experience) [
    * Test iPhone and iPad apps on Macs with Apple silicon ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-macs-with-apple-silicon) [
    * Test iPhone and iPad apps on Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Testing subscriptions and in-app purchases in TestFlight ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/testing-subscriptions-and-in-app-purchases-in-testflight)
  * Manage submissions to App Review

[

    * Overview of submitting for review ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/overview-of-submitting-for-review) [
    * Submit an app ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-app) [
    * Submit an in-app purchase ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-in-app-purchase) [
    * Submit Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Submit a custom product page ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-a-custom-product-page) [
    * Submit an In-App Event ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-in-app-event) [
    * Remove a submission from review ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/remove-a-submission-from-review) [
    * Reply to App Review messages ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/reply-to-app-review-messages) [
    * Manage a submission with unresolved issues ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/manage-a-submission-with-unresolved-issues) [
    * Upload a geographic coverage file ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/upload-a-geographic-coverage-file)
  * Manage your app's availability

[

    * Overview of publishing your app on the App Store ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/overview-of-publishing-your-app-on-the-app-store) [
    * Manage availability for your app on the App Store ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-for-your-app-on-the-app-store) [
    * Set distribution methods ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/set-distribution-methods) [
    * Publish for pre-order ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/publish-for-pre-order) [
    * Select an App Store version release option ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/select-an-app-store-version-release-option) [
    * Manage availability of iPhone and iPad apps on Macs with Apple silicon ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-of-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-macs-with-apple-silicon) [
    * Manage availability of iPhone and iPad apps on Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-of-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Make a version unavailable for download ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/make-a-version-unavailable-for-download) [
    * View app status history ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/view-app-status-history)
  * Manage app pricing

[

    * Set a price ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price) [
    * Schedule price changes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/schedule-price-changes)
  * Update your app

[

    * Create a new version ](/help/app-store-connect/update-your-app/create-a-new-version) [
    * Release a version update in phases ](/help/app-store-connect/update-your-app/release-a-version-update-in-phases)
  * Manage featuring nominations

[

    * Nominate your app for featuring ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-featuring-nominations/nominate-your-app-for-featuring)
  * Monitor ratings and reviews

[

    * Ratings and reviews overview ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/ratings-and-reviews-overview) [
    * View ratings and reviews ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/view-ratings-and-reviews) [
    * Respond to reviews ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/respond-to-reviews) [
    * Reset an app overview rating ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/reset-an-app-overview-rating)
  * Measure app performance

[

    * Overview of reporting tools ](/help/app-store-connect/measure-app-performance/overview-of-reporting-tools) [
    * Differences in reporting tools ](/help/app-store-connect/measure-app-performance/differences-in-reporting-tools)
  * View App Analytics

[

    * View app metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-app-metrics) [
    * View App Clip metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-app-clip-metrics) [
    * View In-App Event metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-in-app-event-metrics) [
    * View acquisition sources ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-acquisition-sources) [
    * Manage campaigns ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/manage-campaigns) [
    * Measure app retention ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/measure-app-retention) [
    * View product page optimization results ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-product-page-optimization-results) [
    * View peer group benchmarks ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-peer-group-benchmarks) [
    * Download App Analytics Reports ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/download-app-analytics-reports)
  * View Sales and Trends

[

    * View units, proceeds, sales, and pre-orders ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/view-units-proceeds-sales-and-pre-orders) [
    * View subscription data ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/view-subscription-data) [
    * Download and view reports ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/download-and-view-reports)
  * Transfer an app

[

    * Overview of app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/overview-of-app-transfer) [
    * App transfer criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/app-transfer-criteria) [
    * Initiate an app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/initiate-an-app-transfer) [
    * Accept an app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/accept-an-app-transfer)
  * Manage agreements

[

    * Sign and update agreements ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-agreements/sign-and-update-agreements) [
    * View agreements status ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-agreements/view-agreements-status)
  * Manage banking information

[

    * Enter banking information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-banking-information/enter-banking-information)
  * Manage tax information

[

    * Provide tax information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information) [
    * Provide tax information for business-to-business status ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-business-to-business-status) [
    * Provide tax information for alternative payment options ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-alternative-payment-options) [
    * Provide tax information for Core Technology Fee ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-core-technology-fee) [
    * Manage invoices and other tax documents ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/manage-invoices-and-other-tax-documents)
  * Manage compliance information

[

    * Manage European Union Digital Services Act trader requirements ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/manage-european-union-digital-services-act-trader-requirements) [
    * View Mainland China compliance information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/view-mainland-china-compliance-information) [
    * Manage Korea compliance information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/manage-korea-compliance-information)
  * Getting paid

[

    * Overview of receiving payments ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/overview-of-receiving-payments) [
    * View payments and proceeds ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/view-payments-and-proceeds) [
    * Download financial reports ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/download-financial-reports)
  * Making payments to Apple

[

    * Overview of making payments to Apple ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/overview-of-making-payments-to-apple) [
    * Update your account for invoicing requirements ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/update-your-account-for-invoicing-requirements) [
    * Understanding taxes ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/understanding-taxes) [
    * Invoice fields ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/invoice-fields)
  * Understanding the Core Technology Fee

[

    * Core Technology Fee overview ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/core-technology-fee-overview) [
    * Estimate fees for alternative business terms ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/estimate-fees-for-alternative-business-terms) [
    * Measure your first annual installs ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/measure-your-first-annual-installs) [
    * Core Technology Fee report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/core-technology-fee-report-fields)
  * Offer promo codes

[

    * Request and manage promo codes ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-promo-codes/request-and-manage-promo-codes)
  * Offer App Clip experiences

[

    * Overview of App Clips ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/overview-of-app-clips) [
    * Offer a default App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/offer-a-default-app-clip-experience) [
    * Offer an advanced App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/offer-an-advanced-app-clip-experience) [
    * Generate App Clip codes ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/generate-app-clip-codes) [
    * Manage an App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/manage-an-app-clip-experience) [
    * View domain URL status ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/view-domain-url-status)
  * Create custom product pages

[

    * Configure multiple product page versions ](/help/app-store-connect/create-custom-product-pages/configure-multiple-product-page-versions)
  * Create product page optimization tests

[

    * Overview of product page optimization ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/overview-of-product-page-optimization) [
    * Create a test ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/create-a-test) [
    * Configure test treatments ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/configure-test-treatments) [
    * Run a test ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/run-a-test) [
    * Apply a test treatment to your product page ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/apply-a-test-treatment-to-your-product-page)
  * Offer In-App Events

[

    * Overview of In-App Events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/overview-of-in-app-events) [
    * Offer In-App Events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/offer-in-app-events) [
    * Manage events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/manage-events)
  * Configure in-app purchase settings

[

    * Overview for configuring in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/overview-for-configuring-in-app-purchases) [
    * Generate keys for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/generate-keys-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Generate a shared secret to verify receipts ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/generate-a-shared-secret-to-verify-receipts) [
    * Enter server URLs for App Store Server Notifications ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/enter-server-urls-for-app-store-server-notifications) [
    * Set a tax category for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/set-a-tax-category-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Turn on Family Sharing for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/turn-on-family-sharing-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Promote in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/promote-in-app-purchases)
  * Manage in-app purchases

[

    * Create consumable or non-consumable in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/create-consumable-or-non-consumable-in-app-purchases) [
    * Create non-renewing subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/create-non-renewing-subscriptions) [
    * View and edit in-app purchase information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/view-and-edit-in-app-purchase-information) [
    * Set a price for an in-app purchase ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/set-a-price-for-an-in-app-purchase) [
    * Schedule price changes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/schedule-price-changes) [
    * Set availability for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/set-availability-for-in-app-purchases)
  * Manage subscriptions

[

    * Offer auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/offer-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set availability for an auto-renewable subscription ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-availability-for-an-auto-renewable-subscription) [
    * Manage pricing for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/manage-pricing-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up introductory offers for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-introductory-offers-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up promotional offers for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-promotional-offers-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up offer codes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-offer-codes) [
    * Set up win-back offers ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-win-back-offers) [
    * Manage Streamlined Purchasing ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/manage-streamlined-purchasing) [
    * Enable billing grace period for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/enable-billing-grace-period-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions)
  * Test in-app purchases

[

    * Overview of testing in sandbox ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/overview-of-testing-in-sandbox) [
    * Create Sandbox Apple Account ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/create-a-sandbox-apple-account) [
    * Manage Sandbox Apple Account settings ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/manage-sandbox-apple-account-settings)
  * Configure Game Center

[

    * Overview of Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-game-center) [
    * Manage leaderboards ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-leaderboards) [
    * Manage leaderboard sets ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-leaderboard-sets) [
    * Manage achievements ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-achievements) [
    * Manage challenges ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-challenges) [
    * Manage activities ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-activities) [
    * Overview of Game Center groups ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-game-center-groups) [
    * Manage groups ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-groups) [
    * Overview of testing Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-testing-game-center) [
    * Remove leaderboard test data ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/remove-leaderboard-test-data) [
    * Manage an app version for Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-an-app-version-for-game-center) [
    * Add Game Center components to an app version ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/add-game-center-components-to-an-app-version) [
    * Add multiplayer compatibility ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/add-multiplayer-compatibility) [
    * Manage scores and players ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-scores-and-players)
  * Managing alternative distribution

[

    * Manage distribution on an alternative app marketplace ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/manage-distribution-on-an-alternative-app-marketplace) [
    * Get an alternative distribution package ID ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/get-an-alternative-distribution-package-id) [
    * Submit for Notarization ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/submit-for-notarization) [
    * Create a marketplace app ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/create-a-marketplace-app)
  * Reference

[

    * App information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-information) [
    * Platform version information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/platform-version-information) [
    * App privacy ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-privacy) [
    * Age ratings values and definitions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/age-ratings-values-and-definitions) [
    * Provide app motion information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/provide-app-motion-information) [
    * Required, localizable, and editable properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/required-localizable-and-editable-properties) [
    * App bundle information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-bundle-information) [
    * App pricing and availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-pricing-and-availability) [
    * App and submission statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-and-submission-statuses) [
    * App build statuses  ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-build-statuses) [
    * Build upload statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/build-upload-statuses) [
    * Apple-hosted asset pack statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-hosted-asset-pack-statuses) [
    * App Store localizations ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-store-localizations) [
    * App Store pricing and availability start times by country or region ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-store-pricing-and-availability-start-times-by-country-or-region) [
    * App Sandbox information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-sandbox-information) [
    * Maximum build file sizes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/maximum-build-file-sizes) [
    * Apple-hosted asset pack size limits ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-hosted-asset-pack-size-limits) [
    * On-demand resources size limits ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/on-demand-resources-size-limits) [
    * Compliance review ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/compliance-review) [
    * Export compliance documentation for encryption ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/export-compliance-documentation-for-encryption) [
    * TestFlight tester information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/testflight-tester-information) [
    * Beta tester feedback ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/beta-tester-feedback) [
    * App preview specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-preview-specifications) [
    * Screenshot specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/screenshot-specifications) [
    * Role permissions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/role-permissions) [
    * User notifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/user-notifications) [
    * Generate catalog reports ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/generate-catalog-reports) [
    * App catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-catalog-report) [
    * Game Center achievement catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-center-achievement-catalog-report) [
    * Game Center leaderboard catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-center-leaderboard-catalog-report) [
    * In-app purchases catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchases-catalog-report) [
    * In-app purchase types ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-types) [
    * In-app purchase information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-information) [
    * Auto-renewable subscription information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/auto-renewable-subscription-information) [
    * In-app purchase and subscriptions pricing and availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-and-subscriptions-pricing-and-availability) [
    * In-app purchase statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-statuses) [
    * In-app purchase localization statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-localization-statuses) [
    * Auto-renewable subscription price increase thresholds ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/auto-renewable-subscription-price-increase-thresholds) [
    * Consent for subscription offer conversions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/consent-for-subscription-offer-conversions) [
    * In-App Event statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-statuses) [
    * In-App Event badges ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-badges) [
    * In-App Event media specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-media-and-audio-specifications) [
    * Nominations template ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/nominations-template) [
    * Leaderboards ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/leaderboards) [
    * Achievements ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/achievements) [
    * Challenges ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/challenges) [
    * Game activities ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-activities) [
    * Group properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/group-properties) [
    * App version properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-version-properties) [
    * App metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-metrics) [
    * App Clip metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-clip-metrics) [
    * In-App Event metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-metrics) [
    * Performance metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/performance-metrics) [
    * App analytics filters and dimensions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-analytics-filters-and-dimensions) [
    * Product page optimization metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/product-page-optimization-metrics) [
    * Payment information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/payment-information) [
    * Financial report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/financial-report-fields) [
    * Transaction tax report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/transaction-tax-report-fields) [
    * Apple legal entities ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-legal-entities) [
    * Currency codes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/currency-codes) [
    * Financial report regions and currencies ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/financial-report-regions-and-currencies) [
    * Minimum payment threshold ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/minimum-payment-threshold) [
    * Summary Sales Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/summary-sales-report) [
    * Sales Events Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-events-report) [
    * Pre-Order Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/pre-order-report) [
    * Subscription Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-report) [
    * Subscription Event Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-event-report) [
    * Subscriber Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscriber-report) [
    * Subscription Offer Redemption Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-offer-redemption-report) [
    * Win-back eligibility report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/win-back-eligibility-report) [
    * Report file names ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/report-file-names) [
    * Subscription events ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-events) [
    * Promotional codes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/promotional-codes) [
    * Product type identifiers ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/product-type-identifiers) [
    * Cancellation reasons ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/cancellation-reasons) [
    * Sales and Trends metrics and dimensions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-and-trends-metrics-and-dimensions) [
    * Sales and Trends reports availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-and-trends-reports-availability) [
    * Banking information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/banking-information) [
    * Store Services tiers ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/store-services-tiers) 

Filter âŒ˜K

Getting paid

# Download financial reports

Financial reports show your monthly proceeds, as well as final unit sales by
country or region and order type. Theyâ€™re automatically generated once a
month, based on Appleâ€™s [fiscal
calendar](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/WebObjects/iTunesConnect.woa/wa/jumpTo?page=fiscalcalendar),
and are only generated if there are purchases or refunds during that fiscal
period.

Financial reports for the previous fiscal month's earnings are available by
the first Friday of the current fiscal month. You can sign up to receive email
notifications as soon as your financial reports are available each month.
[Learn more.](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/view-and-edit-your-
profile#set-email-notifications) Financial reports remain available for a
period of ten years from the reporting date.

You can manually download reports from App Store Connect. [Learn how to
download sales and financial reports using the App Store Connect
API.](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi)

There are four types of reports available.

## All Countries or Regions (Detailed)

This detailed financial report covers all locations in which you have sales on
the App Store and includes the transaction and settlement dates for purchases.
Itâ€™s available once all respective individual currency reports are available,
starting with your March 2020 report.

## All Countries or Regions (Single File)

This consolidated financial report covers all locations in which you have
sales on the App Store, and is based on processed and settled transactions
during the Apple fiscal month. Itâ€™s available once all respective individual
currency reports are available, starting with your March 2020 report.

## All Countries or Regions (Multiple Files)

Separate financial reports cover each location in which you have sales on the
App Store and are based on processed and settled transactions during the Apple
fiscal month. If you change the location where your products are available for
sale, the number of reports you receive may increase or decrease accordingly.
The introduction of new currencies for customers on the App Store may lead to
more reports.

## Transaction tax report (Single File)

This summary report covers the sales tax, use tax, goods and services tax, and
other similar taxes applied on your transactions in the US and Canada. The
report is summarized at a tax rate and jurisdiction level, and is available
the first full month after you've [configured your tax category
settings](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-a-tax-category/).

**Required role:** Account Holder, Admin, or Finance. [View role
permissions.](/help/app-store-connect/reference/role-permissions)

### Download and view financial reports from App Store Connect

  1. In the homepage, click Payments and Financial Reports.

  2. In the top-right corner, click Create Reports.

  3. Select the fiscal month for the report you'd like to download.

  4. Select which locations you'd like to include in your report. By default, this is set to All Countries or Regions (Multiple Files).

**Note:** When All Territories is selected, an App Store Connect user can only
download the reports for which they have access.

  5. Click Create Reports. A status bar will display showing progress of your reports being created.

  6. When reports are ready, a download link will be provided. Click Download Reports.

  7. Unzip the compressed GZIP (`.gz`) file by opening it or using a utility.

  8. Open the extracted tab-delimited text (`.txt`) file in a spreadsheet application.

### Download and view the transaction tax report from App Store Connect

The monthly transaction tax report shows the sales tax, use tax, goods and
services tax, and other similar taxes that Apple applies to your transactions
in the US and Canada. Appleâ€™s tax calculation service uses multiple inputs to
calculate tax on customer transactions in the jurisdictions where we
administer tax, including your tax category selection in App Store Connect,
app metadata, legal entity status, customer attributes, and other requirements
in accordance with the local laws and regulations.

**Note:** To review input taxes, adjustments, or withholding taxes for a
region, please locate the Taxes and Adjustments field in your [Payments and
Financial
Reports](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/itc/payments_and_financial_reports#/).
These taxes arenâ€™t included in the Transaction tax report.

  1. In the homepage, click Payments and Financial Reports.

  2. On the top right, click Create Reports.

  3. In the date picker, choose a month.

  4. In the menu, select Transaction Tax Report.

  5. Click Create Reports.

  6. When the reports are ready, click Download Reports.

[Learn more about transaction tax report fields.](/help/app-store-
connect/reference/transaction-tax-report-fields)

### Download and view reports for Windows users

If you're using Microsoft Windows, you may need to take additional steps to
open your financial reports.

  1. In the homepage, click [Payments and Financial Reports](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/itc/payments_and_financial_reports#/).

  2. In the top-right corner, click Create Reports.

  3. Select the fiscal month for the report you'd like to download.

  4. Click Create Reports. A status bar will display showing progress of your reports being created.

  5. When the reports are ready, click Download Reports.

  6. Unzip the compressed GZIP (`.gz`) file by opening it or using a utility.

  7. Once extracted, youâ€™ll have a tab-delimited text file (`xxx.txt`). If your system doesnâ€™t know how to open it, a dialog with a list of apps to choose from will display. Select WinZip or a WinZip-equivalent application to extract the file.

  8. Launch Microsoft Excel.

  9. In the File menu in Excel, choose Open and the file name. The Import Wizard will start.

  10. In the Original data type box, select Delimited and click Next.

  11. In the Delimiters box, select Tab and click Next.

  12. Select the columns titled UPC, ISRC, and Vendor Identifier by holding the shift key and clicking the top of each column. Once selected, in the top-right Column Data Format box, choose Text. The label above those three columns will change from General to Text.

  13. Click Finish.

  14. Once the file opens, save it as an Excel Workbook.

**Related** [Financial report fields](/help/app-store-
connect/reference/financial-report-fields) [Apple legal entities](/help/app-
store-connect/reference/apple-legal-entities) [Product type
identifiers](/help/app-store-connect/reference/product-type-identifiers)

