# 2023 winners and finalists

The Apple Design Awards honor excellence in innovation, ingenuity, and
technical achievement in app and game design.

Streaming is available in most browsers,  
and in the Apple Developer app.

# Inclusivity Winners

Winners in this category provide a great experience for all by supporting
people from a diversity of backgrounds, abilities, and languages.

APP

## Universe — Website Builder

### Universe Exploration Company

_Universe - Website Builder_ champions the idea of making website building
accessible to everyone. With its innovative block-centric design system and
support for creating websites on all Apple platforms, the app empowers people
to create their perfect online storefront, artist home, community group page,
personal web presence, and anything in between. The app has integrated many of
Apple’s accessibility features, including a fantastic implementation of
Dynamic Type and VoiceOver, and supports building websites in more than 17
languages. By consistently reducing complexity and removing barriers to entry,
_Universe - Website Builder_ enables people to create their own space on the
web through inclusive, thoughtful design.

Available on iPhone, iPad, and Mac

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/universe-website-
builder/id1211437633)

[Behind the Design: Universe — Website Builder](/news/?id=nzd48pl9)

GAME

## stitch.

### Lykke Studios

The warm and approachable _stitch._ is more than a casual game — it’s a
relaxing exercise with cross-generational appeal. A puzzle game, relaxation
technique, and afternoon craft project in one, _stitch._ encourages players to
proceed at their own pace with lovingly crafted puzzles, soothing music, and a
gentle vibe. And with its fun onboarding, support for multiple languages, and
custom accessibility options for those with color blindness, low vision, and
motion sensitivities, it’s designed for as many people as possible.

Available on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/stitch/id1581052096)

[Behind the Design: stitch.](/news/?id=mc4d1ufa)

#### Finalists

##### [Anne Alessandro Di Maio
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/anne/id1628657638)

##### [Passenger Assistance TRANSREPORT Available only in the UK
](https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/id1542190496)

##### [Ancient Board Game Collection Klemens Strasser
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/ancient-board-game-collection/id1510226148)

##### [Finding Hannah Fein Games GmbH ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/finding-
hannah/id1617252957)

[With Ancient Board Game Collection, Klemens Strasser goes back in
time](/news/?id=20mviasl)

# Delight and Fun Winners

Winners in this category provide memorable, engaging, and satisfying
experiences that are enhanced by Apple technologies.

APP

## Duolingo

### Duolingo, Inc.

As anyone who’s crossed paths with _Duolingo_ ’s endearingly tenacious mascot
can attest, delight and fun have always been central to the app’s success.
This past year, the _Duolingo_ team embarked on a comprehensive redesign of
both interface and content, making it even easier and more enjoyable to start
learning a new language. Quests, challenges, and leaderboards help gamify an
already fantastic experience, and a consistent stream of app updates and new
language programs — including courses for endangered and indigenous languages
— help keep people engaged, exploring, and committed to their learning streak.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/duolingo-language-
lessons/id570060128)

[Behind the Design: Duolingo](/news/?id=jhkvppla)

GAME

## Afterplace

### Evan Kice

A vintage pixel adventure with a contemporary twist, Evan Kice’s Afterplace is
a warm and welcoming RPG set in a fabulously expansive open world. A
beautifully crafted environment greets players at every turn, balancing winks
to the past with a wry, modern personality. _Afterplace_ ’s dark forest is a
place of adventure, full of quirky mysteries, hidden rewards, and sarcastic
vending machines — yet it’s designed to be accessible. The game’s clever
onboarding grounds players in the world, and its intuitive one-handed control
system makes it easy and fun to discover _Afterplace_ ’s many surprises.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/afterplace/id1539778232)

[Behind the Design: Afterplace](/news/?id=3exkgv43)

#### Finalists

##### [CREME The CREME Group Inc. ](https://apps.apple.com/app/creme-its-time-
to-cook/id1638361026)

##### [Chantlings IORAMA
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/chantlings/id1560632579)

##### [Pocket Card Jockey: Ride On! GAME FREAK Inc.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/pocket-card-jockey-ride-on/id1604577143)

##### [Knotwords Zach Gage and Jack Schlesinger
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/knotwords/id1598756238)

# Interaction Winners

Winners in this category deliver intuitive interfaces and effortless controls
that are perfectly tailored to their platform.

APP

## Flighty

### Flighty LLC

_Flighty_ is a beautifully designed flight tracker, travel planner, airport
navigator, and concierge. And with incredible Live Activities and Dynamic
Island integration, it’s a friendly companion for every leg of your journey.
With key information where you need it most, an intuitive interface,
comprehensive live maps, and a look that mirrors time-honored airport design
conventions, _Flighty_ might be the easiest part of your whole trip. It’s an
incredible example of thorough and thoughtful use of Apple technologies, with
best-in-class support for widgets, Siri shortcuts, Apple Maps, and Calendar
integration. iCloud sync means it’s available on every device in your carry-
on, and you can live-share your flight path and ETA with anyone, whether they
have the app installed or not.

Available on iPhone, iPad, and Mac

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/flighty-live-flight-
tracker/id1358823008)

[Behind the Design: Flighty](/news/?id=970ncww4)

GAME

## Railbound

### Afterburn

_Railbound_ may feel drawn and designed for kids, but this puzzler — in which
you work to arrange train cars in their proper order — is for conductors of
all ages. The tap-and-drag mechanic for laying track is so simple you could
almost discover it by accident, and the game makes it incredibly easy to
change direction, add switches, or undo your mistakes. And it’s full of clever
design flourishes, like the scribbled frustration cloud that appears over a
misplaced car and adorable characters that pop up along the way. With pristine
animation and colorful visuals, _Railbound_ is a polished puzzler that’s easy
to pick up and difficult to put down — especially once you’re going full
steam.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/railbound/id1636439801)

[Behind the Design: Railbound](/news/?id=0x08hncy)

#### Finalists

##### [Shuffles by Pinterest Pinterest, Inc.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/shuffles-by-pinterest/id1573869498)

##### [Tide Guide: Charts & Tables Condor Digital LLC
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tide-guide-charts-tables/id1406371071)

##### [Automatoys Idle Friday LTD
](https://apps.apple.com/app/automatoys/id1580281448)

##### [Kimono Cats HumaNature Studios Inc.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/kimono-cats/id1623684333)

[The gorgeous gadgets of Automatoys](/news/?id=goqmr9xs)

[The “sweet, creative” world of Kimono Cats](/news/?id=g0x5mvvz)

# Social Impact Winners

Winners in this category improve lives in a meaningful way and shine a light
on crucial issues.

APP

## Headspace

### Headspace

Few apps have brought mindfulness to the masses more successfully than
_Headspace_. More than a decade into its tenure, the app continues to set the
standard for meditation and mental health apps through thoughtful design
decisions, an incredible UI, and a recognizable, comfortable illustration
style. _Headspace_ is remarkably easy to navigate (collections are clearly
labeled with understandable purposes), whether you’re looking for lengthy
guided sessions or a five-minute clarity break. Wonderful Apple Watch
integration brings a moment of mindfulness to your wrist at any time. And the
app’s ever-growing number of diverse contributors and staff help ensure a
focus on representing everyone.

Available on iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/headspace-mindful-
meditation/id493145008)

[Behind the Design: Headspace](/news/?id=fkfnhq8u)

GAME

## Endling

### HandyGames

In the gorgeous side-scroller _Endling_ , you play as a fox fighting to
navigate a land charred by environmental disaster and human impact. _Endling_
casts you as the animal lead to build an immediate sense of empathy and
connection — one that only grows when you’re forced to begin defending your
tiny offspring against all manner of man-made dangers. And the game’s simple
controls ensure that you focus on the powerful storyline rather than the
interactions. _Endling_ isn’t always an easy story to experience, but its mix
of medium and message has never felt more timely.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/endling/id1625083646)

[Behind the Design: Endling](/news/?id=c8l2zi89)

#### Finalists

##### [Duolingo Duolingo, Inc. ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/duolingo-
language-lessons/id570060128)

##### [Sago Mini First Words Sago Mini ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sago-
mini-first-words-kids-1/id1592702367)

##### [Hindsight Team Hindsight ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/hindsight-
game/id1552046093)

##### [Beecarbonize Charles Games s.r.o.
](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1664426101)

# Visuals and Graphics Winners

Winners in this category feature stunning imagery, skillfully drawn
interfaces, and high-quality animations that lend to a distinctive and
cohesive theme.

APP

## Any Distance

### Any Distance Inc.

_Any Distance_ is a design-forward fitness tracker that delivers workout stats
in a variety of eye-popping and easily shareable formats: dynamic charts and
graphs, rotating 3D maps complete with elevation reports, even AR. _Any
Distance_ takes full advantage of Live Activities and Apple Watch integration
to collect and present data, which can include traditional workouts like
running and cycling, as well as wheelchair exercise, stroller runs and walks,
and recumbent bike rides. And its in-app collectibles provide a fun incentive
to go that extra mile. _Any Distance_ raises the bar for the fitness-tracking
genre.

Available on iPhone and Apple Watch

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/any-distance-workout-
tracker/id1545233932)

[Behind the Design: Any Distance](/news/?id=uiiopcl8)

GAME

## Resident Evil Village

### CAPCOM Co., Ltd.

_Resident Evil Village_ is an absolute powerhouse and the new standard of Mac
gaming. This horror adventure takes full advantage of the combined powers of
Apple silicon, ProMotion, and Metal 3 to serve up all the character, lighting,
and motion achievements that fans of the series could hope for. From its
creepy castle to its decrepit factories to its magnificently hideous villains,
_Resident Evil Village_ offers some of the most realistic graphics ever seen
on Apple devices. (Players can enable the MetalFX Upscaling feature to make
being hunted by monsters extra terrifying.) It’s an incredible example of what
Mac games can be.

Available on Mac

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/resident-evil-
village/id1640627334?mt=12)

[Behind the Design: Resident Evil Village](/news/?id=ngi52ptu)

#### Finalists

##### [Gentler Streak Health Fitness Gentler Stories LLC
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gentler-streak-workout-tracker/id1576857102)

##### [Riveo Forge and Form GmbH
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/riveo/id1546053158)

##### [Diablo Immortal Blizzard/NetEase
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/diablo-immortal/id1492005122)

##### [Endling HandyGames
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/endling/id1625083646)

# Innovation Winners

Winners in this category provide a state-of-the-art experience through novel
use of Apple technologies that set them apart in their genre.

APP

## SwingVision: A.I. Tennis App

### SwingVision Inc.

By using the combined powers of AI and Neural Engine, _SwingVision_ serves as
a tennis coach that can help with every aspect of your game. Point your camera
at the court, and _SwingVision_ ’s advanced video-tracking capabilities
evaluate your form, highlight your strengths, and suggest areas of
improvement. Data is drawn from the camera and through best-in-class Apple
Watch integration. Remarkably, all this technical achievement came from humble
beginnings; _SwingVision_ was built by two developers who taught themselves
Swift.

Available on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/swingvision-a-i-tennis-
app/id989461317)

[Behind the Design: SwingVision: A.I. Tennis App](/news/?id=0pg4dthn)

GAME

## MARVEL SNAP

### Second Dinner

_MARVEL SNAP_ has it all: brisk gameplay, unbelievable artwork, and an
incredible stickiness that keeps you coming back — and rewards you for doing
so. But the game’s true innovation is its “snap” mechanic, which instantly
doubles the stakes and introduces whole new layers of strategy and good old-
fashioned psychological warfare. The game is a visual feast, awash in 3D
parallax graphics, astonishing animations (just watch Hulk smash in 60 fps),
and delightfully deployed haptics. True Marvel believers will be rewarded by a
bottomless array of variants and deep-cut characters, while newbies will pick
it up in no time at all. _MARVEL SNAP_ is an incredible achievement that’s
redefined the collectible-card-game genre.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/marvel-
snap/id1592081003)

[Behind the Design: MARVEL SNAP](/news/?id=sosm2p7q)

#### Finalists

##### [Camo Studio Reincubate Ltd. ](https://reincubate.com/camo/)

##### [Rise: Energy & Sleep Tracker Rise Science Inc.
](https://apps.apple.com/de/app/rise-energy-sleep-tracker/id1453884781)

##### [Resident Evil Village CAPCOM Co., Ltd.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/resident-evil-village/id1640627334?mt=12)

##### [stitch. Lykke Studios
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/stitch/id1581052096)

##### [View last year’s winners](/design/awards/2022/)

