[AI SDK Errors](/docs/reference/ai-sdk-errors)AI_NoObjectGeneratedError

Copy markdown

# AI_NoObjectGeneratedError

This error occurs when the AI provider fails to generate a parsable object
that conforms to the schema. It can arise due to the following reasons:

  * The model failed to generate a response.
  * The model generated a response that could not be parsed.
  * The model generated a response that could not be validated against the schema.

## Properties

  * `message`: The error message.
  * `text`: The text that was generated by the model. This can be the raw text or the tool call text, depending on the object generation mode.
  * `response`: Metadata about the language model response, including response id, timestamp, and model.
  * `usage`: Request token usage.
  * `finishReason`: Request finish reason. For example 'length' if model generated maximum number of tokens, this could result in a JSON parsing error.
  * `cause`: The cause of the error (e.g. a JSON parsing error). You can use this for more detailed error handling.

## Checking for this Error

You can check if an error is an instance of `AI_NoObjectGeneratedError` using:

    
    
    import { generateObject, NoObjectGeneratedError } from 'ai';
    
    
    
    
    try {
    
      await generateObject({ model, schema, prompt });
    
    } catch (error) {
    
      if (NoObjectGeneratedError.isInstance(error)) {
    
        console.log('NoObjectGeneratedError');
    
        console.log('Cause:', error.cause);
    
        console.log('Text:', error.text);
    
        console.log('Response:', error.response);
    
        console.log('Usage:', error.usage);
    
        console.log('Finish Reason:', error.finishReason);
    
      }
    
    }

[PreviousAI_NoImageGeneratedError](/docs/reference/ai-sdk-errors/ai-no-image-
generated-error)

[NextAI_NoOutputSpecifiedError](/docs/reference/ai-sdk-errors/ai-no-output-
specified-error)

