# Apple Design Awards 2020

The Apple Design Awards celebrate the creative artistry and technical
achievement of developers who reflect the best in design, innovation, and
technology on Apple platforms.

Streaming is available in most browsers,  
and in the Apple Developer app.

[Watch us surprise the winners](/videos/play/wwdc2020/20022/)

## Shapr 3D

### Shapr3D Zrt.

Running CAD software has generally required a desktop computer with
considerable processing power. _Shapr 3D_ changes that. This pro-level iPad
app offers unparalleled performance, compatibility with all major CAD file
formats, and instant export for 3D printing. It also makes the design
experience incredibly tactile, especially with Apple Pencil. Whether crafting
a face mask, a hot rod, or an architectural project, you’ll feel like you’re
manipulating virtual objects in the real world.

Available on iPad

[Read about the design of Shapr
3D](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=i6qdbzn9)

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/shapr-3d-cad-
modeling/id1091675654)

## Looom

### Eran Hilleli

_Looom_ brings hand-drawn animation into the iPad age, making the process
quicker and accessible to all. No experience necessary here. Sketch with your
finger or Apple Pencil, then swipe to bring up a new cel; what you drew
earlier stays faintly visible. Accessible enough for hobbyists but powerful
enough for pros, _Looom_ keeps the intimidation factor low with toy-like gears
that tweak frame rate and more. Going back to the drawing board has never been
this delightful.

Available on iPad

[Read about the design of
Looom](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=s26ze13m)

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/looom/id1454153126)

## StaffPad

### StaffPad Ltd

The way _StaffPad_ transforms hand-drawn music notation into professionally
formatted sheet music on the fly feels almost magical. Using your Apple Pencil
or finger, scribble notes on the blank staff, add a few articulation marks (a
staccato here, a tenuto there), and maybe a crescendo and diminuendo for good
measure — then watch a polished score come together right before your eyes.
Another _StaffPad_ feature that really sings: Press play to hear your
composition-in-progress performed by a full ensemble of virtual orchestral
instruments right in the app.

Available on iPad

[Read about the design of
StaffPad](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=5z97xxqw)

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/staffpad/id1442074103)

## Darkroom

### Bergen Co.

This comprehensive and surprisingly powerful photo editor comes loaded with
all the granular controls and moody filters you’ve come to expect — with an
elegant interface that truly lights the way. Its simple Curves editor lets
photographers of all levels fine-tune light and color in an intuitive and
artful way. Pros will appreciate _Darkroom’s_ ability to batch-edit images,
open RAW files, and create custom filters. In the crowded world of photo-
editing apps, _Darkroom_ shines bright.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[Read about the design of
Darkroom](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=nxnjx66e)

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/darkroom-photo-video-
editor/id953286746)

## Sayonara Wild Hearts

### Simogo/Annapurna

Part ’80s music video, part classic arcade game, _Sayonara Wild Hearts_ is
pure interactive poetry — the kind that gets your adrenaline pumping and makes
your spirit soar. The objective: Heal your broken heart. To accomplish that,
you’ll race across surreal landscapes on your motorcycle — sometimes in
cities, sometimes in space — with the occasional detour into balletic battle
sequences, all to a killer synth-fueled soundtrack. And it features the voice
of Queen Latifah!

Available on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV

[Read about the design of Sayonara Wild
Hearts](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=33kvkagk)

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sayonara-wild-
hearts/id1441675161)

## Song of Bloom

### Philipp Stollenmayer

Stollenmayer is best known for his quirky, physics-based games, including the
lovably weird food-flinging trilogy Bacon, Pancake, and Burger. With _Song of
Bloom_ , he brings his appealing oddballery to something totally different: an
artistic puzzle game in which challenges branch out from one another (and
often require nontraditional solutions, like plugging in your charging cable).
Giving too much away would spoil the fun. Suffice to say, this fascinating
nonlinear game is as unique as its creator.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[Read about the design of Song of
Bloom](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=q9fq8jkq)

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/song-of-
bloom/id1479162134)

## Where Cards Fall

### The Game Band/Snowman

_Where Cards Fall_ proves as moving as it is inventive. The premise of this
brilliant puzzle game is simple: Strategically build houses of cards so you
can leap and climb your way across dreamlike levels. The twist? Each level
represents a memory of the game’s protagonist, and as you master its
increasingly tricky puzzles you’ll reconstruct chapters of an unexpected (and,
we warn you, tearjerking) story. The game may be called _Where Cards Fall_ ,
but there’s nothing remotely unintentional about it.

Available on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV

[Read about the design of Where Cards
Fall](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=fy6rx06s)

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/where-cards-
fall/id1466331487)

## Sky: Children of the Light

### Thatgamecompany

Some games reward quick reflexes, others cunning ambition. _Sky: Children of
the Light_ is predicated on something else entirely: generosity. The desire to
help others is woven through the game’s very fabric. Players work together to
bring light to a lush, open world; pair up to solve puzzles and unlock
secrets; or simply hold hands by a fire and chat. Richly drawn and endlessly
inventive, _Sky_ soars.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[Read about the design of Sky: Children of the
Light](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=zm47it7t)

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sky-children-of-the-
light/id1462117269)

