# Apple Design Awards 2021

The Apple Design Awards honor excellence in innovation, ingenuity, and
technical achievement in app and game design.

Streaming is available in most browsers,  
and in the Apple Developer app.

## Inclusivity Winners

Winners in this category provide a great experience for all by supporting
people from a diversity of backgrounds, abilities, and languages.

## HoloVista

### Aconite

_HoloVista_ supports a wide variety of accessibility features, including
options for motion control, text sizes, text contrast, sound, and visual
effect intensity. Purposeful interactions and considerations help achieve
gameplay that can be experienced and perceived in more than one way.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/holovista/id1474114304)

## Voice Dream Reader

### Voice Dream LLC

_Voice Dream Reader_ is a best-in-class text-to-speech app that reads text
aloud from just about any digital source, whether it’s a web page or PDF, in
more than two dozen languages. Its adaptive features and high level of
customizable settings allow anyone to choose a voice with the perfect tone,
timbre, accent, and speed for an optimal reading experience.

Available on iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/voice-dream-
reader/id496177674)

#### Finalists

##### [1Password AgileBits Inc.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/1password-7-password-
manager/id1333542190?mt=12)

##### [A Monster's Expedition Draknek Limited
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/a-monsters-expedition/id1449606823)

##### [Alba ustwo games ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/alba-a-wildlife-
adventure/id1528014682)

##### [Me: A Kid’s Diary by Tinybop Tinybop Inc.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/apple-store/id1126531257?mt=8)

## Delight and Fun Winners

Winners in this category provide memorable, engaging, and satisfying
experiences that are enhanced by Apple technologies.

## Little Orpheus

### The Chinese Room

_Little Orpheus_ is an enjoyable platformer that brings easy controls,
excellent storytelling, and a console-like experience to a casual game.
Throughout its diverse variety of levels, this game packs a clever surprise at
every turn while keeping things light with its comical dialogue.

Available on iPhone, iPad, and Apple TV

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/little-
orpheus/id1446279575)

## Pok Pok Playroom

### Pok Pok

_Pok Pok Playroom_ is a playful, and beautifully animated app that captivates
users with its thoughtful design and mesmerizing interactions. Thanks to its
subtle haptics and spot-on sound effects, this app provides endless hours of
fun for kids of all ages, while rewarding creativity and experimentation.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/pok-pok-
playroom/id1550204730)

#### Finalists

##### [Poolsuite FM Poolsuite ](https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/poolside-
fm/id1514817810)

##### [RakugakiAR Whatever Inc.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/rakugakiar/id1515215584)

##### [Wonderbox AQUIRIS GAME STUDIO LLC
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/wonderbox-the-adventure-maker/id1520720139)

##### [South of the Circle State of Play Games
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/south-of-the-circle/id1477077753)

## Interaction Winners

Winners in this category deliver intuitive interfaces and effortless controls
that are perfectly tailored to their platform.

## Bird Alone

### George Batchelor

_Bird Alone’s_ explorative interactions combine gestures, haptics, parallax,
and dynamic sound effects that imbues richness into its world. The game is
brought to life through clever notification integration, graphics, and music
that changes depending on the real-world weather, season, and time of day.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/bird-alone/id1435827876)

## CARROT Weather

### Brian Mueller, Grailr LLC

_CARROT Weather_ is known for its humorous forecasts and unique visuals. A
recent design update has brought simplicity and elegance to its experience
across all Apple platforms. From witty weather projections, to a robust set of
customizable widgets and a collection of useful watch faces, this app comes
packed with endless entertainment.

Available on iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/carrot-
weather/id961390574)

#### Finalists

##### [Craft Luki Labs Limited ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/craft-docs-and-
notes-editor/id1487937127)

##### [Nova Panic ](https://nova.app)

##### [Sp!ng SMG Studio ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sp-ng/id1483542433)

##### [Wonderbox AQUIRIS GAME STUDIO LLC
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/wonderbox-the-adventure-maker/id1520720139)

## Social Impact Winners

Winners in this category improve lives in a meaningful way and shine a light
on crucial issues.

## Alba: A Wildlife Adventure

### ustwo games

With a natural reserve being bulldozed by the city to make a hotel, _Alba_
saves local wildlife, repairs the bridge in the reserve, and cleans up trash
around town. This game demonstrates the positivity that comes from respecting
the environment, while telling a story about family, community, activism, and
kindness. For every copy of the game downloaded, one tree will be planted to
help a reforestation project in Madagascar.

Available on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/alba-a-wildlife-
adventure/id1528014682)

## Be My Eyes

### Be My Eyes

_Be My Eyes_ enables people who are blind and low-vision to identify objects
by pairing them with volunteers from around the world using their camera. The
app supports more than 300,000 blind and low-vision users and more than 4.5
million volunteers, across 150+ countries and 180+ languages.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/apple-store/id905177575)

#### Finalists

##### [Brief Broadsheet ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/brief-unbiased-us-
news/id1475186118)

##### [If Found... Annapurna Interactive ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/if-
found/id1440072561)

##### [Klima Climate Labs GmbH ](https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/klima-live-
carbon-neutral/id1527437330)

##### [Attentat 1942 Charles Games s.r.o.
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/attentat-1942/id1512771916)

## Visuals and Graphics Winners

Winners in this category feature stunning imagery, skillfully drawn
interfaces, and high-quality animations that lend to a distinctive and
cohesive theme.

## Genshin Impact

### miHoYo Limited

_Genshin Impact's_ heart-pounding battle scenes and far-reaching landscapes
push the visual frontier for mobile gaming. Motion blur, shadow quality, and
frame rate can be reconfigured on the fly whether players are obliterating
slime monsters, summoning earthquakes, flinging lightning, or guiding the wind
itself to supercharge flames and blizzards.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/genshin-
impact/id1517783697)

## Loóna

### Loona Inc

_Loóna_ offers gracefully animated sleepscape sessions that combine relaxing
activities, storytelling, and atmospheric sounds. Every aspect of its
interface — type, color, animation, and 3D content — has been crafted with
precision to create a soothing, calming experience.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/loóna-relax-calm-
happiness/id1465238901)

#### Finalists

##### [Beyond a Steel Sky Revolution ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/beyond-a-
steel-sky/id1474849377)

##### [Mission to Mars AR SN Digital LLC
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/mission-to-mars-ar/id1550116275)

##### [(Not Boring) Weather Andy Works LLC
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/not-boring-weather/id1531063436)

##### [Little Orpheus The Chinese Room ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/little-
orpheus/id1446279575)

## Innovation Winners

Winners in this category provide a state-of-the-art experience through novel
use of Apple technologies that set them apart in their genre.

## League of Legends: Wild Rift

### Riot Games

_League of Legends: Wild Rift_ takes a complex PC game and delivers its full
experience on mobile. The team at Riot Games has reimagined this beloved title
from the ground up, giving players total immersion in the _League of Legends_
universe through polished touchscreen controls that have been designed
specifically for mobile, an auto-targeting system to help newcomers find their
footing, mobile-exclusive camera settings, and much more.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/ph/app/league-of-legends-wild-
rift/id1480616990)

## NaadSadhana

### Sandeep Ranade

_NaadSadhana_ is an all-in-one, studio-quality music app that helps musicians
of all genres and any expertise perform and publish their music without
boundaries. After first finding its tune as an app for practicing Indian
classical singing, NaadSadhana has expanded to support seven different genres
of music. And with the help of artificial intelligence and Core ML, the app
listens as a singer improvises a vocal line, provides instant feedback on the
accuracy of notes, and generates a backing track to match, all in real time.

Available on iPhone and iPad

[View on the App
Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/naadsadhana/id1348181386)

#### Finalists

##### [Bird Alone George Batchelor ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/bird-
alone/id1435827876)

##### [Blind Drive Lo-Fi People ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/blind-
drive/id964294239)

##### [Museum Alive Alchemy Immersive Ltd
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/museum-alive/id1548503337)

##### [Universe Universe Exploration Company
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/universe-website-builder/id1211437633)

##### [View last year’s winners](/design/awards/2020/)

