# Introducing the 2024  
Apple Design Award winners

Delight and Fun | Inclusivity | Innovation | Interaction | Social Impact | Visuals and Graphics | Spatial Computing

Streaming is available in most browsers,  
and in the Apple Developer app.

Every year, the Apple Design Awards recognize innovation, ingenuity, and
technical achievement in app and game design. But they’ve also become
something more: A moment to step back and celebrate the Apple developer
community in its many forms.

# Delight and Fun

Winners in this category provide memorable, engaging, and satisfying
experiences enhanced by Apple technologies.

### Winners

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/bears-gratitude/id6443609622)

#### [Bears Gratitude ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/bears-
gratitude/id6443609622)

Isuru Wanasinghe, Australia

**App** | iPhone, iPad, Mac

Journaling apps just don’t get much cuter than _Bears Gratitude_ , a warm and
welcoming way to establish — and, just as crucially, maintain — a daily
gratitude practice. Yes, the bears and other characters are super-huggable and
turn up in delightfully unexpected places. But they also serve as a welcoming
way into the content. And with its thoughtfully considered touchpoints, _Bears
Gratitude_ is a simple way to encourage and embrace honest self-reflection.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nyt-games-word-games-sudoku/id307569751)

#### [NYT Games ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nyt-games-word-games-
sudoku/id307569751)

The New York Times Company, USA

**Game** | iPhone, iPad

An all-time great with a compelling mix of games and the source of the fierce
debate, “What’s the best Wordle starting word?” In the past year, _NYT Games_
evolved well past its classic crosswords and breakout s-m-a-s-h to redesign
its navigation, expand its already diverse catalog of games, and introduce
grabby new conversation starters like Connections — which, like Wordle, feels
perfectly calibrated for maximum replayability.

* * *

### Finalists

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/rooms/id6443548715)

##### [Rooms ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/rooms/id6443548715)

Things, Inc., USA

iPhone, iPad

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/dudel-draw/id6450056192)

##### [Dudel Draw ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/dudel-draw/id6450056192)

Silly Little Apps LLC, USA

iPhone, iPad

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/what-the-car/id1534708672)

##### [WHAT THE CAR? ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/what-the-
car/id1534708672)

Triband ApS, Denmark

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple Vision Pro

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/hello-kitty-island-adventure/id1553505132)

##### [Hello Kitty Island Adventure ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/hello-
kitty-island-adventure/id1553505132)

Sunblink Entertainment LLC, USA

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple Vision Pro

# Inclusivity

Winners in this category provide a great experience for all by supporting
people from a diversity of backgrounds, abilities, and languages.

### Winners

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/oko-accessible-navigation/id1583614988)

#### [oko ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/oko-accessible-
navigation/id1583614988)

AYES, Belgium

**App** | iPhone

_oko_ alerts pedestrians to the state of lighted signals through haptic and
audio feedback, an immediately impactful approach for those with low to no
vision. It’s a smart solution to a critical safety scenario that takes full
advantage of flawless VoiceOver and Dynamic Type implementation.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/crayola-adventures/id6444109249)

#### [Crayola Adventures ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/crayola-
adventures/id6444109249)

RED GAMES CO, LLC, USA

**Game** | iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple Vision Pro

A colorful adventure that sets a new standard for inclusive and gender-neutral
character-creation options, which include different skin tones, abilities,
body types, pronouns, and more. _Crayola Adventures_ offers inclusivity
options across the board, including full narration for non-readers or those
with reading challenges. And it’s a delight to experience for a wide range of
ages, with a mix of activities that includes making decorations, solving
puzzles, and reading storybooks.

* * *

### Finalists

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/complete-anatomy-2024/id1054948424)

##### [Complete Anatomy 2024 ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/complete-
anatomy-2024/id1054948424)

Elsevier, Ireland

iPad, Mac

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tiimo-visual-daily-planner/id1480220328)

##### [Tiimo ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tiimo-visual-daily-
planner/id1480220328)

tiimo ApS, Denmark

iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/unpacking/id6450058135)

##### [Unpacking ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/unpacking/id6450058135)

Humble Bundle, Inc, USA

iPhone, iPad

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/quadline/id1575569233)

##### [quadline ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/quadline/id1575569233)

Kovalov Ivan, Ukraine

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple Vision Pro

# Innovation

Winners in this category provide a state-of-the-art experience through novel
use of Apple technologies that set them apart in their genre.

### Winners

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/procreate-dreams/id1595520602)

#### [Procreate Dreams ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/procreate-
dreams/id1595520602)

Savage Interactive Pty Ltd, Australia

**App** | iPad

The new standard in creating 2D animations on iPad. _Procreate Dreams_ is a
marvelously designed tool that allows creatives of all kinds to animate using
the extensive and familiar library of brushes, gestures, and PencilKit-enabled
behaviors from the original _Procreate_. Its controls are effortlessly
intuitive — multitouch interactions and Apple Pencil are both supported — so
it’s easy to jump right in, whether you’re a career animator or brand new to
the medium. As is the case with its predecessor, every interaction in
_Procreate Dreams_ feels polished, thoughtfully considered, and ready to use
out of the box. If you’re looking to explore animation, it’s a dream come
true.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lost-in-play/id6449434958)

#### [Lost in Play ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lost-in-play/id6449434958)

Happy Juice Games, Israel

**Game** | iPhone, iPad, Apple Vision Pro

_Lost in Play_ feels like a graphic novel come to life. Every corner of its
inventive world — from its spooky forest to its clifftop village — brims with
visual imagination and handcrafted charm. And the game is filled with
endearing characters (like a surprisingly snarky flock of sheep) and fun mini-
games. Add in easy-to-learn interactions and compelling gameplay, and you’ve
got a game worth getting lost in.

* * *

### Finalists

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/copilot-track-budget-money/id1447330651)

##### [Copilot Money ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/copilot-track-budget-
money/id1447330651)

Copilot Money, Inc., USA

iPhone, Mac

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/smartgym-gym-home-workouts/id922744883)

##### [SmartGym ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/smartgym-gym-home-
workouts/id922744883)

Mateus Abras, Brazil

iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, Mac, Apple Vision Pro

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/wavelength/id1512834505)

##### [Wavelength ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/wavelength/id1512834505)

Palm Court LLC, USA

iPhone, iPad, Apple Vision Pro

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/call-of-duty-warzone-mobile/id1638368439)

##### [Call of Duty: Warzone Mobile ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/call-of-
duty-warzone-mobile/id1638368439)

Activision Publishing, Inc., USA

iPhone, iPad

# Interaction

Winners in this category deliver intuitive interfaces and effortless controls
that are perfectly tailored to their platform.

### Winners

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/crouton-recipe-manager/id1461650987)

#### [Crouton ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/crouton-recipe-
manager/id1461650987)

Devin Davies, New Zealand

**App** | iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, Apple Vision Pro

Recipe apps rise and fall on their organization and information hierarchy, and
_Crouton_ serves up a clean, tasty interface for stashing away recipes,
creating grocery lists, and presenting step-by-step instructions in the
kitchen — even if you’re not exactly a chef. Everything in _Crouton_ , from
the next recipe step to the name of that missing spice, is easy to find and
right where you need it. And its effortless series of interactions mean people
can keep their focus on the counter rather than their screen.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/rytmos/id1673697954)

#### [Rytmos ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/rytmos/id1673697954)

Floppy Club ApS, Denmark

**Game** | iPhone, iPad

A world music-inspired rhythm game that looks as good as it sounds. _Rytmos_
challenges players to solve puzzles by creating pathways using simple drag
gestures, and every completed level adds a new element to an evolving song.
The onboarding makes gameplay instantly clear, and the gestures are simple and
fun, even when the game starts delivering more and more complexity.

* * *

### Finalists

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/procreate-dreams/id1595520602)

##### [Procreate Dreams ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/procreate-
dreams/id1595520602)

Savage Interactive Pty Ltd, Australia

iPad

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/arc-search-find-it-faster/id6472513080)

##### [Arc Search ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/arc-search-find-it-
faster/id6472513080)

The Browser Company of New York Inc., USA

iPhone

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/little-nightmares/id1620883955)

##### [Little Nightmares ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/little-
nightmares/id1620883955)

Playdigious, France

iPhone, iPad

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/finity/id1071698434)

##### [finity. ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/finity/id1071698434)

Seabaa, Inc., USA

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV

# Social Impact

Winners in this category improve lives in a meaningful way and shine a light
on crucial issues.

### Winners

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gentler-streak-workout-tracker/id1576857102)

#### [Gentler Streak Fitness Tracker ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gentler-
streak-workout-tracker/id1576857102)

Gentler Stories d.o.o., Slovenia

**App** | iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch

With its thoughtful focus on both physical and mental health, _Gentler Streak_
is chasing the elusive goal of improving everyone’s lifestyles, no matter who
or where they are. As its name suggests, the app is powered not by insistent
reminders but an optimistic and encouraging vibe that takes into account not
just physical fitness but mental well-being too. To make sure people focus on
those goals, _Gentler Streak_ relies on a subtle and consistently pleasing
design language. Its health data is smartly organized, and its Monthly Summary
view — which shows how you’re doing in relation to your history — is less
about hard comparisons and more about progress.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/the-wreck/id6450220805)

#### [The Wreck ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/the-wreck/id6450220805)

The Pixel Hunt, France

**Game** | iPhone, iPad

A lush visual novel about sisterhood, motherhood, grief, and survival. _The
Wreck_ tells the story of Junon, a writer who’s abruptly called to a hospital
to make a life-changing decision. The story is far from light, but it’s
beautifully written and eloquently told, especially through fleeting thought
bubbles that reflect the swirl and scatter of stressful situations. _The
Wreck_ may be filed under games, but it’s also a powerful, heartbreaking
story, one that invites players to think about their own choices as well.

* * *

### Finalists

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/how-we-feel/id1562706384)

##### [How We Feel ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/how-we-feel/id1562706384)

The How We Feel Project, Inc., USA

iPhone

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/ahead-emotions-coach/id1570430177)

##### [Ahead: Emotions Coach ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/ahead-emotions-
coach/id1570430177)

ahead solutions GmbH, Germany

iPhone

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/cityscapes-sim-builder/id1631153096)

##### [Cityscapes: Sim Builder ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/cityscapes-sim-
builder/id1631153096)

MagicFuel Games, USA

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple Vision Pro

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/the-bear/id6449494088)

##### [The Bear ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/the-bear/id6449494088)

Mucks Games UG (haftungsbeschrnkt), Germany

iPhone, iPad

# Visuals and Graphics

Winners in this category feature stunning imagery, skillfully drawn
interfaces, and high-quality animations that lend to a distinctive and
cohesive theme.

### Winners

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/fr/app/rooms/id6443548715?l=en-GB)

#### [Rooms ](https://apps.apple.com/fr/app/rooms/id6443548715?l=en-GB)

Things Inc., USA

**App** | iPhone, iPad

An incredible canvas for creativity, set in a nostalgic 8-bit world. _Rooms_
is tough to categorize: It’s a blank slate for building imaginative scenes, a
platform for cozy gaming, and a social space that lets you interact with
thousands of other people’s creations. Rooms in _Rooms_ are lovingly rendered
and sprinkled with tons of delightful detail, and the app’s interactions,
sounds, and throwback visuals strike the perfect balance between quirky and
compelling. Quirky, compelling, and executed with a delightful retro twist.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lies-of-p/id6459738231)

#### [Lies of P ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lies-of-p/id6459738231)

NEOWIZ Corporation, South Korea

**Game** | Mac

A technical showpiece for Mac — and a dark, fascinating twist on a familiar
tale. In this gorgeously rendered adventure, players control a robotic puppet
created by Geppetto — yes, that Geppetto — who must survive a battle march
through a burned-out city to find his maker. One look at the visuals reveals a
world of beautiful textures, detailed lighting, and stunning effects — and
visual customization options like MetalFX Upscaling and volumetric fog effects
let you style the ruined city to your liking. Add a coldly beautiful
soundtrack and the nostalgic shadow of the original story, and you get a
complete, considered, and unique experience — and that’s the truth.

* * *

### Finalists

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sunlitt-sun-position-path/id1628751457)

##### [Sunlitt ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sunlitt-sun-position-
path/id1628751457)

Nicolas Mariniello, Italy

iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/meditate-mindfulness-app/id1242738872)

##### [Meditate ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/meditate-mindfulness-
app/id1242738872)

RhythmicWorks Software LLP, India

iPhone, Apple Watch

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/death-stranding-directors-cut/id6449748961)

##### [DEATH STRANDING DIRECTOR'S CUT ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/death-
stranding-directors-cut/id6449748961)

505 Games, Inc., USA

iPhone, iPad, Mac

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/honkai-star-rail/id1599719154)

##### [Honkai: Star Rail ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/honkai-star-
rail/id1599719154)

COGNOSPHERE PTE. LTD., Singapore

iPhone, iPad

# Spatial Computing

Winners in this category brought extraordinary craftsmanship to their
exceptional spatial experiences.

### Winners

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/djay-dj-app-ai-mixer/id450527929)

#### [djay ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/djay-dj-app-ai-mixer/id450527929)

Algoriddim GmbH, Germany

**App** | Apple Vision Pro, iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch

_djay pro_ isn’t just a groundbreaking app; it’s an entirely new way to
interact with music. With incredible technical ingenuity and best-in-class
immersion, it feels fresh and new and alive. The app spins up high-quality
turntables that you can scratch to your heart’s content, a cool interactive
effects panel, and an array of magnificently considered environments, like the
space lounge populated by dancing robots. _djay pro_ set out to create the
“flow state” sought by live DJs on the spatial canvas; they’ve come away with
a smash hit.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/blackbox-for-vision/id6458588937)

#### [Blackbox ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/blackbox-for-
vision/id6458588937)

Shapes and Stories, USA

**Game** | Apple Vision Pro

_Blackbox_ on iOS challenged players to think outside the screen; _Blackbox_
on visionOS challenges them to think about every (metaphorical) corner of the
spatial canvas from its very first moments. Revealing too much about
_Blackbox_ would spoil its many surprises; suffice it to say that wonderful
details abound — like the soapy floating bubbles that drive level selection.

* * *

### Finalists

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sky-guide/id576588894)

##### [Sky Guide ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sky-guide/id576588894)

Fifth Star Labs LLC, USA

Apple Vision Pro, iPhone, iPad

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nba-live-games-scores/id484672289)

##### [NBA ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nba-live-games-scores/id484672289)

NBA MEDIA VENTURES, LLC, USA

Apple Vision Pro, iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/synth-riders/id6473729300)

##### [Synth Riders ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/synth-riders/id6473729300)

Kluge Strategic Inc., USA

Apple Vision Pro, iPhone, iPad

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/loóna-cozy-puzzle-games/id6467633844)

##### [Loóna: Cozy Puzzle Games ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/loóna-cozy-
puzzle-games/id6467633844)

Loona Inc., USA

Apple Vision Pro

##### [View last year’s winners](/design/awards/2023/)

