# Introducing the 2025  
Apple Design Award winners

Every year, the Apple Design Awards recognize innovation, ingenuity, and
technical achievement in app and game design. But they’ve also become
something more: A moment to step back and celebrate the work of Apple
developers across the community.

![](/design/awards/2025/images/ada-wwdc25-winners-large_2x.jpg)

Streaming is available in most browsers,  
and in the Apple Developer app.

**We’re thrilled to announce this year’s winners and finalists.**

Delight and Fun | Inclusivity | Innovation | Interaction | Social Impact | Visuals and Graphics

# Delight and Fun

Winners and finalists in this category provide memorable, engaging, and
satisfying experiences enhanced by Apple technologies.

### Apps

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6738896465)

Winner #### [CapWords ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6738896465)

HappyPlan Tech, China

iPhone, iPad

The delightful language-learning app _CapWords_ offers an idea that’s as
simple as it is revolutionary: Learn the name of a thing by taking a picture
of it. With the snap of a camera and a fun animation, _CapWords_ transforms
everyday objects — coffee mugs, traffic cones, cupcakes — into interactive
stickers. It’s both a dynamic new path to learning and a really fun thing to
do; it’s hard to stop snapping pictures of everything around you. And each
flash card transition is accompanied by a real-world sound, a little tweak
that enhances the sensory experience (and helps the word stick). Equal fun for
kids and adults, _CapWords_ makes the whole world a language playground.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lumy/id908905093)

#### [Lumy ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lumy/id908905093)

Raja V, India

iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch

If you’re a photographer looking to follow the sun, or an aspiring astronomer
who wants to know what a little moonlight can do, this thoughtfully crafted
sun and moon tracker can help. With a simple design, carefully curated color
palette, and elegant widgets and Live Activities, _Lumy_ offers a quick and
intuitive way to get celestial information. Plus, it syncs beautifully with
Apple Watch, a little universal insight right on your wrist.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/denim-playlist-cover-maker/id1532250420)

#### [Denim - Playlist Cover Maker ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/denim-
playlist-cover-maker/id1532250420)

Feel Good Tech, India

iPhone

_Denim_ creates brilliant new cover art for your playlists, but the app isn’t
just about aesthetics: This is a seamless SwiftUI-built experience, with
smooth scroll transitions and elegant text and mesh gradients. It’s also a joy
to play with, thanks to custom haptics, intelligent cropping, and cool depth
effects. _Denim_ is a simple, well-executed idea that adds an extra dimension
to the art of playlist creation.

* * *

### Games

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6502453075)

Winner #### [Balatro ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6502453075)

LocalThunk, Canada

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple Vision Pro

No game captured the community this past year quite like _Balatro_ , a
precisely calibrated mix of poker, solitaire, deck-building, and chaos.
Crafted by a solo developer working under a pseudonym and delivered with a
tinge of rakish audacity, this captivatingly innovative card game challenges
players to beat a score by building unique decks while navigating an ever-
shifting array of variables, such as power-up jokers and “Boss Blinds” that
can reduce the most lovingly crafted deck to a pile of rubble. _Balatro_ re-
emphasizes the boundless potential of indie games and the idea that a simple
and powerful concept can grow into a phenomenon.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/thank-goodness-youre-
here/id6504887308?mt=12)

#### [Thank Goodness You’re Here! ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/thank-
goodness-youre-here/id6504887308?mt=12)

Panic, USA

Mac

It’s safe to say Thank Goodness You’re Here! is the best wildly unhinged slap-
happy pie-obsessed flower-punching cartoon musical comedy game you’ll play all
year. Deliriously giddy, surprisingly polished, and the inventor and probably
pinnacle of the slapformer genre, this profoundly bonkers production
practically flings itself from scene to scene, churning out absurdities — one
level takes place inside a slab of meat, maybe? — and a madcap cast of
fishmongers, bad gardeners, and chimney sweeps that somehow add up to a
cohesively built world. Here’s the craziest part: Hiding inside the lost
threepences and large hams is a delightful game that keeps bubbling up
compelling quests and backstories. It’s a credit to the entire creative team
that _Thank Goodness You’re Here!_ isn’t just genuinely funny from beginning
to end; it’s also a real artistic achievement and a rewarding play experience.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/prince-of-persia-lost-crown/id6498547840)

#### [Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/prince-
of-persia-lost-crown/id6498547840)

Ubisoft Montpellier, France

iPhone, iPad, Mac

This masterful franchise revival delivers a stylish, time-bending adventure
with deep roots in mythological legend. A snappy attack/dodge/parry loop that
players can enhance with an array of special moves (air dashes!) and
supernatural abilities (teleportation!) lends acrobatic flair to the combat.
But while the action is the star of _Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown_ , it’s
the brilliantly conceived, labyrinthine world that keeps people coming back.
Packed with secrets, shortcuts, and surprises, the beautifully interconnected
levels form a platforming playground that brings this beloved series up to
speed — and offers a glimpse into its bright future.

# Inclusivity

Winners and finalists in this category provide a great experience for all by
reflecting a variety of backgrounds, abilities, and languages.

### Apps

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/speechify-text-to-speech/id1209815023)

Winner #### [Speechify ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/speechify-text-to-
speech/id1209815023)

Speechify, USA

iPhone, iPad

With hundreds of voices and more than 50 available languages, _Speechify_
turns any written text into audio — everything from websites, documents,
scans, PDFs, and more. The app offers an approachable UI with a variety of
accessibility features — Dynamic Type and VoiceOver among them — that make it
an instantly helpful tool for everyone: students, professionals, and leisure
readers, as well as auditory learners and people with low vision. The design
team clearly worked to reduce cognitive load all throughout the app too.
_Speechify_ is more than a great app; it’s a critical resource that helps
people live their lives.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/in/app/daily-self-care-coach-evolve/id1515433542)

#### [Evolve: Daily Self-Care Coach ](https://apps.apple.com/in/app/daily-
self-care-coach-evolve/id1515433542)

GTA Solutions, India

iPhone, iPad

A beautifully designed health and fitness app that’s uniquely focused on the
LGBTQ+ community. _Evolve_ offers thoughtfully conceived and well-designed
breathing exercises, affirmations, and daily journaling. With a friendly and
straightforward tone, inclusive language, and a variety of diverse voices,
it’s clearly intended to be a safe space for all, and it’s nicely integrated
with features like Image Playground and the State of Mind API. A welcome and
comfortable resource that’s been brought to life with thought and care.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/train-fitness-for-apple-watch/id1548577496)

#### [Train Fitness ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/train-fitness-for-apple-
watch/id1548577496)

Train Fitness, Canada

iPhone, iPad

_Train Fitness_ logs workouts by using CoreMotion and CoreML to track the
motion of a user’s Apple Watch and AirPods, eliminating the need for
interaction with a screen or UI. This thoughtful approach makes _Train
Fitness_ particularly useful for people who are blind or low vision, or anyone
who may face challenges interacting with screens. With specific modes designed
for workouts in wheelchairs and for users with limb differences, _Train
Fitness_ proves a dedication to both platform and audience.

* * *

### Games

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1630468596)

Winner #### [Art of Fauna ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1630468596)

Klemens Strasser, Austria

iPhone, iPad

A uniquely drawn puzzle game that prioritizes inclusivity and ecology in equal
measure. Inspired by an encounter with 18th and 19th century science texts,
_Art of Fauna’s_ throwback-style wildlife puzzles can be solved by either re-
arranging the image on the front of the cards, or re-ordering the text
description on the back. As in his previous Apple Design Award finalists,
_Letter Rooms_ and _Ancient Board Game Collection_ , Strasser designed with
accessibility in mind, adding color themes, full VoiceOver support, and phobia
settings that let players opt out of seeing potentially upsetting imagery.
Plus, proceeds from every purchase support wildlife conservation
organizations.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/puffies/id1659992476)

#### [puffies. ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/puffies/id1659992476)

Lykke Studios, Thailand and Cyprus

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple Vision Pro

Lykke Studios returns to the Apple Design Awards with a nostalgic puzzler
built for everyone. Players assemble puzzles made of ’80s-era puffy stickers —
more than 2,500 of them, all drawn by local artists from Bangkok and Bali. As
in their 2023 Apple Design Award winner _Stitch_ and 2022 finalist _Tint_ ,
the studio prioritized accessibility from Day 1, integrating features like
Reduce Motion, a high-contrast mode, and a series of “outline settings” that
add focus to certain parts of the board.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/land-of-livia/id1052641617)

#### [Land of Livia ](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/land-of-
livia/id1052641617)

Split Atom Labs, Australia

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Vision Pro

A low-key fantasy adventure you can play at your own speed. Battle oversized
rodents, recruit companions, discover magical swords, and turn your zero into
a hero by undertaking text-based quests that unfold while you’re away from the
game. With support for VoiceOver, Dynamic Type, and Haptics, _Land of Livia_
is specifically designed for players who are blind or low vision. And it takes
advantage of App Intents to let players carry out complex actions.

# Innovation

Winners and finalists in this category provide a state‑of‑the‑art experience
through novel use of Apple technologies that set them apart in their genre.

### Apps

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6669873480)

Winner #### [Play ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6669873480)

Rabbit 3 Times, USA

iPhone, Mac

For such a sophisticated tool, _Play_ offers incredibly approachable
prototyping capabilities that make design and development easier for everyone.
_Play_ helps designers create interactive prototypes using native SwiftUI
frameworks, which can then be sent to Xcode and used for shipping finished
apps. The well-designed UI is nicely organized, visually pleasing, and
cleverly integrated with App Clips. Plus, everything you create in _Play_ —
including logic and interactions — matches perfectly with Xcode.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/moises-the-musicians-app/id1515796612)

#### [Moises ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/moises-the-musicians-
app/id1515796612)

Music.AI, Brazil

iPhone, iPad

This musical marvel isolates the instruments in a recorded song, using machine
learning models to separate out the vocals, guitar, bass, drums, and more into
individual tracks. The effect is absolutely mind-bending. You can remove a
guitar solo and supply your own, turn any song into an a cappella, or play
around with pitch and tempo, all of which can make it feel like you’re hearing
a favorite song for the first time. But for all its technical magic, _Moises_
is remarkably easy to understand and navigate, which leaves you not just
astounded at its powers, but compelled to rediscover your music.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/capybara-ai-meeting-translator/id6667094162)

#### [Capybara AI Meeting Translator ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/capybara-
ai-meeting-translator/id6667094162)

Digital Workroom Ltd., United Kingdom

iPhone, iPad

An impressive transcription, translation, and summarization tool that offers
an astonishing level of accuracy — and an adorable aesthetic. A relaxed little
_capybara_ hangs out on the screen while the app is doing its thing, and the
results are delivered right away, all powered by the Apple Intelligence
Translate API. A simple and endearing interface for a complex task.

* * *

### Games

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6499055208)

Winner #### [PBJ — The Musical ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6499055208)

Philipp Stollenmayer, Germany

iPhone, iPad

A charming story game with polished execution and impressive production values
— and did we mention it’s a snack-based musical reboot of “Romeo and Juliet”?
Created by Philipp Stollenmayer and sandwiched somewhere between narrative and
game, _PBJ_ tells the story of star-crossed condiments through paper cutouts
animated by hand and a soundtrack full of sticky earworms (complete with a
karaoke mode) — and it even jams in a few puns. With delightful controls,
creative camera angles, cool haptics, and countless clever moments, _PBJ_
never stops spreading joy.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/vn/app/pawz-take-a-break/id6593665132)

#### [Pawz ](https://apps.apple.com/vn/app/pawz-take-a-break/id6593665132)

Bootloader Studio Holdings, Singapore

Apple Vision Pro

A clever example of ambient gaming on Vision Pro, _Pawz_ leverages passthrough
technology to integrate virtual pets into real-world environments — or, put
another way, to let you play with (or meditate alongside) an animated furry
friend that evolves with your interaction and reacts to the environments you
customize. It’s all good fun, full of charming moments, meaningful
progressions, and a playful personality.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gears-goo/id6471676214)

#### [Gears & Goo ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/gears-goo/id6471676214)

Resolution Games AB, Sweden

Apple Vision Pro

A fresh take on tower defense, _Gears & Goo_ on Apple Vision Pro is a polished
experience that makes expert use of spatial audio, hand tracking, and eye
tracking. _Gears & Goo_ is dripping with fun; it’s fluid, responsive, and
smartly uses the 3D space to create a deep strategic experience. It’s easy to
pick up and enjoy — who doesn’t love throwing goo around? — and the cartoon
steampunk style really pops, making the experience feel like a miniature world
floating in your space.

# Interaction

Winners and finalists in this category deliver intuitive interfaces and
effortless controls that are perfectly tailored to their platform.

### Apps

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id387682726)

Winner #### [Taobao ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id387682726)

Zhejiang Taobao Network, China

Apple Vision Pro

An exceptional example of how to render, interact with, and design for 3D
elements on Apple Vision Pro. _Taobao_ provides incredible 3D models that are
comparable to their physical counterparts, each with smooth interactions,
transitions, and intuitive controls. For each 3D product, _Taobao_ takes into
consideration placement, position, controls, size, and function, and offers
the super-useful ability to compare items side-by-side.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id775737590)

#### [iA Writer ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id775737590)

Information Architects AG, Switzerland

iPhone, iPad, Mac

A smart solution for distraction-free writing. Substantially updated since its
initial release, _iA Writer_ offers useful features like a customizable
keyboard, selective text highlighting, and iCloud sync. It’s got an array of
intuitive interactions — like swiping right to access your library and left to
preview a document — that emphasize its goal of helping people tune out
interruptions and focus on the words.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1548466041)

#### [Mela - Recipe Manager ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1548466041)

Silvio Rizzi, Switzerland

iPhone, iPad, Mac

Like a perfectly prepared dish, this recipe app is all about getting the
details right. When the app’s sharp-looking cooking mode is activated, recipe
steps, measurements, and timing details are subtly dimmed and highlighted at
the proper time. Timers integrate with the Dynamic Island, recipe scanning is
powered by the Vision framework, and ingredients plug right into the Reminders
app. And for the cherry on top, _Mela_ lets you subscribe to RSS feeds from
cooking sites and can extract recipes from social media video descriptions.

* * *

### Games

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6526463862)

Winner #### [DREDGE ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6526463862)

Black Salt Games, New Zealand

iPhone, iPad, Mac

A two-word idea — “Lovecraftian fishing” — inspired this appealingly creepy
debut from Black Salt Games, whose creative team all admits to spending more
time fishing in video games than in real life. _DREDGE_ is a slow-paced horror
adventure set in a maritime town where dark and large secrets lurk below the
surface. The game’s submerged monsters may be unsettling, but its interactions
are smooth sailing across touch and controller, both in its main narrative and
fun mini-games. And it’s a seamless experience across iPhone, iPad, and Mac.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6471676214)

#### [Gears & Goo ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6471676214)

Resolution Games AB, Sweden

Apple Vision Pro

What’s more fun than defending your tower by throwing around blobs of goo?
This polished and sticky spatial game features top-of-the-line integration of
eye tracking and hand control. The experience of picking up and plopping down
your units on the battlefield feels tactile (and awfully fun). And the game is
easy to pick up, understand, and enjoy.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6448986810)

#### [Skate City: New York ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6448986810)

Snowman, Canada

iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV

Packed with cool combos to perform and obstacles to navigate, _Skate City: New
York_ plays equally well with touch and controller. Its patient onboarding
affords plenty of time to learn its wealth of kickflips, manuals, and grinds,
which you can then upgrade through smartly spaced-out lessons. The result is
easy to pick up, but with enough challenge to keep even expert digital skaters
glued to its virtual boards.

# Social Impact

Winners and finalists in this category improve lives in a meaningful way and
shine a light on crucial issues.

### Apps

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1574452924)

Winner #### [Watch Duty: Wildfire Maps
](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1574452924)

Sherwood Forestry Service, USA

iPhone, iPad

When wildfires tore through southern California in January, _Watch Duty_
served as a primary source for essential, ever-changing, and sometimes life-
saving information. A non-commercial operation run by volunteers, _Watch Duty_
once again proved itself the go-to app for a community impacted by wildfires,
clearly and reliably offering updates, resources, and real-time guidance.
_Watch Duty’s_ core functions and integrations are certainly impressive in
their own right. But the best thing that can be said is that the app continued
to step up when it needed to.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1324203419)

#### [Ground News ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1324203419)

Snapwise, Canada

iPhone, iPad

A news aggregator that helps people view how media outlets across the
political spectrum are covering or downplaying a topic. _Ground News_ presents
news coverage from thousands of publications worldwide alongside a graph that
evaluates the political bent of an article or outlet (which is ranked by a
third-party service and users). Every design element, from color-coded bias
markers to user-friendly layouts, has been carefully crafted to inspire trust,
transparency, and a desire to explore multiple viewpoints.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1497465230)

#### [Opal ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1497465230)

Opal OS, USA

iPhone, iPad

_Opal_ helps people establish a more intentional relationship with technology
by encouraging less time on devices. And it’s a delightful experience in its
own right, full of helpful tools like widgets, Shortcuts, and easy-to-set-up
customizations. And fun touches like haptics when unlocking “gems” deliver a
charming way to create focus.

* * *

### Games

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6737359999)

Winner #### [Neva ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6737359999)

Devolver Digital, USA

Mac

A powerful, sometimes somber, and richly illustrated story about the emotional
effects of environmental decline. Created by the team behind the gorgeous
_Gris_ , _Neva_ follows a girl and her wolf as they make their way through a
decaying world, using the changing of the seasons to illustrate not just the
challenges of their reality but the evolution of their relationship. Players
are charged with escorting the pair safely through the game’s breathtakingly
realized world, which shines in every season. But the game’s true heart is the
connection between the pair, which reminds us what it means to care for
something — or someplace.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/ahoy-from-picardy/id6470239695)

#### [Ahoy! From Picardy ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/ahoy-from-
picardy/id6470239695)

Daniel Jones, USA

Apple Vision Pro

A whimsical experience that’s part redemption arc and part environmental
warning. This inventive game features a character named Picardy, a man who’s
desperate to make up for past mistakes and bring beauty into his part of the
world. The game maximizes the potential of the spatial canvas, offering many
compelling ways for players to interact with the richly drawn world (and take
in its wonderful soundscapes), all in service of a message about environmental
stewardship — and the difficulty in changing institutions.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/art-of-fauna-cozy-puzzles/id1630468596)

#### [Art of Fauna ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/art-of-fauna-cozy-
puzzles/id1630468596)

Klemens Strausser, Austria

iPhone, iPad

A uniquely drawn puzzle game that prioritizes inclusivity and ecology in equal
measure. Inspired by an encounter with 18th and 19th-century science texts,
_Art of Fauna’s_ classical wildlife puzzles can be solved by either re-
arranging the image on the front of the cards or re-ordering the text
description on the back. It’s a warm, serene way to bring awareness to the
plight of endangered species, and a bit of a love letter to science. And it
backs up its message: Proceeds from every purchase support conservation
organizations.

# Visuals and Graphics

Winners and finalists in this category feature stunning imagery, skillfully
drawn interfaces, and high-quality animations with a distinctive and cohesive
theme.

### Apps

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6737254232)

Winner #### [Feather: Draw in 3D ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6737254232)

Sketchsoft, South Korea

iPad

An incredible modeling tool that allows artists to easily transform their 2D
designs into fully immersive 3D creations. _Feather_ is designed from the
ground up with user experience and creativity in mind, packing powerful and
advanced 3D modeling features inside a minimalist interface that’s accessible
to all skill levels. The iPad-only app makes full use of touch and Apple
Pencil interactions.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1084540807)

#### [Vocabulary - Learn words daily
](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1084540807)

Monkey Taps, USA

iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch

A subtle example of excellence. _Vocabulary_ is powered by charming,
consistent illustrations that create a clean visual style and rhythm
throughout. Typography and iconography feel modern and balanced, themes are
nicely varied, and the use of haptics is a nice touch. A lovely instance of an
app that quietly does everything right.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1627776848)

#### [CellWalk ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1627776848)

Timothy Davison, Canada

Apple Vision Pro

_CellWalk_ is a biology class like none other. This highly evolved visionOS
app allows organisms to explore a 3D cell model delivered with incredible
fidelity and detail. It’s a revelation to regard a 300 million-atom bacterial
cell through this kind of beautiful, real-time Metal-powered rendering — which
has been optimized for Apple Vision Pro — and by simulating the effect of
looking into a microscope, it offers a neat twist on the expected experience.

* * *

### Games

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6502622570)

Winner #### [Infinity Nikki ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6502622570)

Infold Games, Singapore

iPhone, iPad

A wonderland of texture, light, and animation, _Infinity Nikki_ is one of the
best-looking games of the year. This open-world game — which challenges
players to collect clothes instead of weapons — is awash in wildly detailed
fabrics, beautifully realized lighting, and effects from advanced shading
techniques like Global Illumination. Notice how Nikki’s dress sways and waves,
and marvel at the sparkle on every last piece of fabric in every world. Lavish
yet cozy at the same time, _Infinity Nikki_ is an often literally glowing
example of what mobile graphics can be.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6502953520)

#### [Control Ultimate Edition ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6502953520)

Remedy Entertainment PLC, Finland

Mac

Twisting hallways, looming cityscapes, creepy stone-white heads — they’re all
part of the visual masterpiece that is _Control_. The game is a visual feast,
making remarkable use of hardware-accelerated ray tracing to conjure up
battlegrounds like the ominously clean offices of the Federal Bureau of
Control. Every detail — from the reflections in the boardroom windows to the
characters’ subtle eye darts while speaking — is expertly drawn and
choreographed. Take a moment to marvel at the particle, smoke, and 3D effects
as you’re busting up environments.

[ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6737359999)

#### [Neva ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id6737359999)

Devolver Digital, USA

Mac

Created by the team behind the gorgeous adventure _Gris_ , _Neva_ is a
masterful connection of visual language and emotion. The game follows a girl
and her wolf as they make their way through a decaying world, using the
changing of the seasons to illustrate not just the challenges of their reality
but the evolution of their relationship. Each _Neva_ level has its own color
palette, and the camera skillfully zooms in and out to showcase extended
horizons or sumptuously animated combat. _Neva_ is an artistic achievement and
an emotional powerhouse.

##### [View last year’s winners](/design/awards/2024/)

