# Working with Accessories

Learn about the requirements for building accessories that work well with
Apple devices. Discover technologies you can use in your apps to interact with
accessories built for Apple devices.

## Designing Accessories

Well-designed cases, covers, screen overlays, watch bands, camera attachments,
and Bluetooth accessories complement Apple devices without interfering with
their operation. As you create accessories for Apple products, follow the
design guidelines and test your prototypes to make sure they meet the
necessary requirements.

[ ![](/assets/elements/icons/wwdr-unified/document.svg) Accessory Design
Guidelines  
for Apple Devices ](/accessories/Accessory-Design-Guidelines.pdf) Updated
September 9, 2025

## Accessory Technologies

Apple platforms provides several services used to interact with Apple devices
and a wide range of accessories. Learn how to build apps and accessories that
deliver the best experience using the latest Apple technologies and industry
standards.

### [What’s new AccessorySetupKit The new AccessorySetupKit framework allows
your apps to seamlessly and securely pair Bluetooth accessories without
relying on access to all nearby Bluetooth accessories, keeping other devices
private. Learn more ![](/accessories/images/screen-whats-new-small_2x.png)
](/documentation/accessorysetupkit/)

[ ![HomeKit Icon](/assets/elements/icons/homekit/homekit-128x128_2x.png)
HomeKit and Matter Allow users to communicate with and control connected
accessories in their home using your app. With the HomeKit or Matter
framework, you can provide ways to configure accessories and create actions to
control them. Users can even group actions together and trigger them using
Siri. Learn more ](/apple-home/) [ ![HealthKit
Icon](/assets/elements/icons/healthkit/healthkit-128x128_2x.png) HealthKit
Integrate HealthKit into your health and fitness apps for iOS and watchOS to
create a more seamless user experience. When a customer provides permission
for your app to read and write health and activity data to their Health app,
your app can deliver deeply informed health and fitness solutions. Learn more
](/health-fitness/) [ ![AirPlay Icon](/accessories/images/airplay-
dark-256x256_2x.png) AirPlay AirPlay allows users to wirelessly stream content
from their Apple device. Using Media Player APIs that support AirPlay, you can
enrich your apps by allowing users to extend content from their Apple device
to Apple TV, HomePod, or AirPlay-compatible speakers. Learn more ](/airplay/)
[ ![AirPrint Icon](/accessories/images/airprint-dark-256x256_2x.png) AirPrint
It’s easy to deliver photo and document printing in your apps without the need
to download or install drivers. AirPrint is built into most popular printer
models and offers a complete set of features, including full-quality output,
automatic media selection, and enterprise-class finishing options. Learn more
](/airprint/) [ ![Find My Icon](/assets/elements/icons/find-my/find-
my-128x128_2x.png) Find My network Let users locate your products with the
Find My network. With hundreds of millions of Apple devices around the world,
advanced end-to-end encryption, and industry leading security, the Find My
network lets users easily locate their belongings in the Find My app with the
peace of mind that their privacy is protected. Learn more ](/find-my/) [
![Nearby Interactions Icon](/assets/elements/icons/nearby-interactions/nearby-
interactions-128x128_2x.png) Nearby Interactions with UWB Build apps that
interact with accessories simply by being in close proximity to an Apple
device that includes Ultra Wideband (UWB) chipset. Taking advantage of UWB
technology lets you create more precise, directionally aware app experiences.
Learn more ](/nearby-interaction/) [ ![iBeacon Icon](/ibeacon/images/ibeacon-
logo.svg) iBeacon From welcoming people as they arrive at a sporting event to
providing information about a nearby museum exhibit, iBeacon opens a new world
of possibilities for location awareness, and countless opportunities for
interactivity between devices and iBeacon hardware. Learn more ](/ibeacon/) [
![Bluetooth Icon](/accessories/images/bluetooth.svg) Bluetooth Create an
engaging and connected user experience by integrating Bluetooth® wireless
technology in your apps and hardware accessories. And with Core Bluetooth
framework, it’s easy for your apps to interact with the growing number of
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) devices. Learn more ](/bluetooth/) [ ![Game
Controller Icon](/assets/elements/icons/nearby-interactions/nearby-
interactions-128x128_2x.png) Game Controllers The Game Controller framework
supports a wide variety of popular controllers, such as the Xbox Series X|S
Wireless Controller or the Sony PS5 DualSense Wireless Controller. Adding
controller support to your game is an easy way to provide a unified experience
across iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV. Learn more
](/documentation/gamecontroller/) [ ![CarPlay
Icon](/assets/elements/icons/nearby-interactions/nearby-
interactions-128x128_2x.png) CarPlay CarPlay is the smarter, safer way for
people to use iPhone in the car. CarPlay apps can provide audio,
communication, and route guidance features, and help the user locate nearby
services. Vehicles can integrate support for CarPlay on their primary display
and show route information in their instrument cluster. Learn more
](/carplay/)

## Get Started

Find resources and programs needed to develop and distribute apps and
manufacture accessories that interact with Apple devices.

##### Which best describes you?

Select an option Accessory developer App developer Accessory manufacturer
Educator Hobbyist/maker

##### Which best describes the product you’re creating or work with?

Select an option AirPlay speaker Apple Watch band Bluetooth accessory Case
Find My Network accessory Game controller Headset and headphone Lightning
charge and sync accessory MagSafe Attach accessory MagSafe charger Smart home
device Vehicle infotainment

##### Which Apple technology do you plan to integrate into your app?

Select an option AirPlay AirPrint Bluetooth CarPlay External Accessory
Framework Game Controller HomeKit HealthKit iBeacon Nearby Interaction

##### Which type of case are you producing?

Select an option Battery case for Apple Device MagSafe Attach MagSafe case
module Non-electronic

#### See if the MFi Program is right for you.

This program provides access to the technical specifications, hardware
components, certification tools, and badge artwork needed to develop and
manufacture electronic accessories that connect to Apple products using
licensed technologies.

[Learn about the MFi Program](/programs/mfi/)

#### View specs for designing accessories.

If you’re designing accessories, download the Accessory Design Guidelines for
specifications on using Bluetooth technologies, creating watch bands,
designing cases, and more.

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

#### See if the MFi Program is right for you.

This program provides access to the technical specifications, hardware
components, certification tools, and badge artwork needed to develop and
manufacture electronic accessories that connect to Apple products using
licensed technologies.

[Learn about the MFi Program](/programs/mfi/)

#### View specs for designing accessories.

If you’re designing accessories, download the Accessory Design Guidelines for
specifications on using Bluetooth technologies, creating watch bands,
designing cases, and more.

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

#### See if the MFi Program is right for you.

This program provides access to the technical specifications, hardware
components, certification tools, and badge artwork needed to develop and
manufacture electronic accessories that connect to Apple products using
licensed technologies.

[Learn about the MFi Program](/programs/mfi/)

#### View specs for designing accessories.

If you’re designing accessories, download the Accessory Design Guidelines for
specifications on using Bluetooth technologies, creating watch bands,
designing cases, and more.

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

[View the HomeKit Accessory Protocol Specification (Noncommercial
Version)](/apple-home/)

#### Designing accessories

View the Accessory Design Guidelines to get specifications on using Bluetooth
technologies, creating watch bands, designing cases, and more.

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

[View the HomeKit Accessory Protocol Specification (Noncommercial
Version)](/apple-home/)

#### Developing apps

Apple provides everything that faculty and students need to dive into
designing and coding. With Mac — as well as Swift, Xcode, and other free
developer tools — you’ll have everything you need to build incredible apps.
The Develop in Swift curriculum provides faculty with the flexibility to
support a variety of learners.

[Learn more](https://www.apple.com/education/higher-education/app-
development/)

[Explore Swift Playground](/swift-playgrounds/)

#### Take advantage of free resources.

Explore Apple technologies to find technical documentation, code samples, and
other resources to learn how to utilize and implement unique features that can
be leveraged in an application or accessory.

If you’re designing accessories, download the Accessory Design Guidelines for
specifications on developing watch bands, cases, and other Apple accessories.

Learn about Apple technologies

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

To design and manufacture Apple Watch bands, view the Accessory Design
Guidelines for Apple Devices. Follow the guidelines and test your prototypes
to make sure they meet requirements.

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

Read Bluetooth documentation and download the Accessory Design Guidelines for
specifications on using Bluetooth technologies. Follow the guidelines and test
your prototypes to make sure they meet requirements.

[Learn about Bluetooth](/bluetooth/)

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

#### See if the MFi Program is right for you.

Membership in the MFi Program is required for creating certain types of
Bluetooth accessories — for example, accessories leveraging the iPod Accessory
Protocol over Bluetooth Classic or accessories using HomeKit over Bluetooth
Low Energy.

[Learn about the MFi Program](/programs/mfi/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

Read the Bluetooth documentation and download the Accessory Design Guidelines
to get specifications on using Bluetooth technologies. Follow the guidelines
and test your prototypes to make sure they meet requirements.

[Learn about Bluetooth](/bluetooth/)

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

#### Designing accessories

Download the Accessory Design Guidelines for specifications on using Bluetooth
technologies, creating watch bands, designing cases, and more.

[Download the Apple Accessory Design Guidelines](/accessories/Accessory-
Design-Guidelines.pdf)

[View the HomeKit Accessory Protocol Specification (Noncommercial
Version)](/apple-home/)

#### Developing apps

Discover valuable resources you can use to improve your coding skills, as well
as ways to connect with Apple experts for technical and design guidance.

[Learn more](/learn/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

With Media Player APIs that support AirPlay 2, you can wirelessly send your
content from any Apple device to a speaker enabled with AirPlay or Apple TV.

[Learn about AirPlay](/airplay/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

AirPrint is built into most popular printer models and offers a complete set
of features, including full-quality output, automatic media selection, and
enterprise-class finishing options. Learn how to easily to deliver photo and
document printing in your apps without the need to download or install
drivers.

[Learn about AirPrint](/airprint/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

Apps that use the CarPlay framework can provide audio, communication, and
route guidance features, and help people locate nearby services. Vehicles can
integrate support for CarPlay on their primary display and show route
information in their instrument cluster.

[Learn about CarPlay](/carplay/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

The Game Controller framework supports a wide variety of popular controllers,
such as the Xbox Series X|S Wireless Controller or the Sony PS5 DualSense
Wireless Controller. Adding controller support to your game is an easy way to
provide a unified experience across iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV.

[Learn about Game Controller](/documentation/gamecontroller/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

The HomeKit framework is used to build apps that coordinate and control home
automation accessories from multiple vendors to present a seamless, user-
focused interface.

[Learn about HomeKit](/apple-home/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

The HealthKit framework provides a central repository for health and fitness
data on iPhone and Apple Watch. With the user’s permission, apps communicate
with the HealthKit store to access and share this data.

[Learn about HealthKit](/health-fitness/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

iBeacon technologies enable location awareness possibilities for apps.
Leveraging Bluetooth Low Energy, a device with iBeacon technology can be used
to establish a region around an object. This allows a device to determine when
it has entered or left the region, along with an estimation of proximity to a
beacon.

[Learn about iBeacon](/ibeacon/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

The External Accessory framework enables apps to communicate with an MFi
accessory that connects to an Apple device through an Apple Lightning
connector or Bluetooth Classic. Make sure to first consult with the accessory
developer or manufacturer to determine if they plan to authorize specific
third-party apps to communicate with their [MFi accessories](/programs/mfi/).

[Learn about External Accessory](/documentation/externalaccessory/)

#### Take advantage of documentation.

The Nearby Interaction framework is used to build apps that interact with
accessories that are within close proximity to an Apple device that includes
the U1 chip.

[Learn about Nearby Interaction](/nearby-interaction/)

