# Build great business apps

Apple hardware, software, and services are designed from the ground up to work
together so you can build apps that create an incredible experience for
employees and customers. Learn more about best practices in design, platform
technologies, and integration with enterprise systems to build amazing apps
for business.

Design | Develop | Integrate | Distribute

![](/business/images/hero-business_2x.jpg)

# Build great business apps

Apple hardware, software, and services are designed from the ground up to work
together so you can build apps that create an incredible experience for
employees and customers. Learn more about best practices in design, platform
technologies, and integration with enterprise systems to build amazing apps
for business.

Design | Develop | Integrate | Distribute

## Design

The best business apps are designed to create engaging, immersive experiences.
Developing an app that’s responsive and easy to use means considering all
aspects of design, including display sizes and device orientation. And when
you create a consistent, familiar interface that users expect, you also help
empower users to be more productive and efficient.

![](/business/images/design-tile-card-hig_2x.jpg)

#### Human Interface Guidelines

Start here to get in-depth information and UI resources for designing apps
that integrate seamlessly with Apple platforms.

  * [Human Interface Guidelines](/design/human-interface-guidelines/)

![](/business/images/design-tile-card-resources_2x.jpg)

#### Apple Design Resources

Design apps quickly and accurately using Sketch, Photoshop, Figma templates,
guides, and other resources.

  * [Apple Design Resources](/design/resources/)

![](/business/images/design-tile-card-videos_2x.jpg)

#### Design videos

Learn more about design best practices.

  * [The qualities of great design](/videos/play/wwdc2018/801/)
  * [Create custom apps for employees](/videos/play/wwdc2020/10222/)
  * [The process of inclusive design](/videos/play/wwdc2021/10304/)

![](/business/images/a11y_2x.png)

#### Accessibility

With built-in accessibility features, APIs, and developer tools, Apple
operating systems provide extraordinary opportunities to deliver apps that
work for everyone, including people with disabilities.

[Learn more about accessibility](/accessibility/)

![](/business/images/app-design-development_2x.jpg)

#### The user-led design process

For years, Apple has helped organizations create powerful, user-centered apps
that change the way their employees work. We’ve captured best practices that
have surfaced through working with businesses across all industries. This
scalable design approach is yours to use to help you generate ideas, solve
problems, and build consensus across your organization as you develop apps.

[Learn more](https://books.apple.com/us/book/enterprise-
blueprint/id1467807216)

## Develop

Tap into the latest SDKs to build features in your apps that change the way
businesses work. And with the power of Xcode and the ease of Swift, it’s
easier than ever to build innovative apps.

![](/assets/elements/icons/swift/swift-64x64_2x.png)

#### Swift

Swift is a powerful and intuitive programming language for all Apple
platforms. Swift code is safe by design and produces software that runs
lightning‑fast.

  * [Swift](/swift/)
  * [C++ language support](/xcode/cpp/)
  * [Mix Swift and C++](/videos/play/wwdc2023/10172/)

![](/assets/elements/icons/swiftui/swiftui-64x64_2x.png)

#### SwiftUI

SwiftUI helps you build apps across all Apple platforms with the power of
Swift. You can bring even better experiences to everyone, on any Apple device,
using just one set of tools and APIs.

  * [SwiftUI](/xcode/swiftui/)
  * [SwiftData](/xcode/swiftdata/)
  * [Swift Testing](/xcode/swift-testing/)

![](/assets/elements/icons/platforms/icon-visionos-f.svg)

#### Spatial computing

Businesses are building new experiences on Apple Vision Pro, enabling
employees and customers to work in new ways across design, training, guided
work, productivity, and more.

[Explore the latest video sessions](/news/?id=5uxs103n)

**Enterprise APIs for visionOS**

New enterprise APIs provide additional access to working with objects, images,
and more in the environment, along with access to the Apple Neural Engine.

  * [Building spatial experiences for business apps](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/visionOS/building-spatial-experiences-for-business-apps-with-enterprise-apis/)
  * [Introducing enterprise APIs for visionOS](/videos/play/wwdc2024/10139/)

![](/assets/elements/icons/apple-intelligence/apple-intelligence-64x64_2x.png)

#### Apple Intelligence and machine learning

##### Apple Intelligence

App Intents, APIs, and frameworks make it easy to integrate system-level
features like Siri, Writing Tools, and Image Playground into your apps.

[Learn more](/apple-intelligence/)

##### Machine learning

Enhancements to machine learning frameworks let you build, train, and run your
machine learning and AI models on Apple devices like never before.

[Learn more](/machine-learning/)

## Integrate

When building great apps for business, make sure they integrate seamlessly
with enterprise systems. Apple platforms provide a comprehensive set of tools,
so you can build apps that can be set up and managed by your team.

![](/business/images/gear.svg)

#### Systems integration

Build apps that connect with back-end systems and business processes. Access
resources to develop apps that use native frameworks to tap into critical
business systems.

  * [Leverage enterprise identity and authentication](/videos/play/wwdc2020/10139/)
  * [Extensible Enterprise SSO](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicemanagement/extensiblesinglesignon/)

![](/business/images/rack.svg)

#### Management

Take advantage of native management frameworks so your apps can integrate
easily with mobile device management (MDM).

  * [What’s New in managing Apple devices](/videos/play/wwdc2024/10143/)
  * [Platform Deployment Guide](https://support.apple.com/guide/deployment/welcome/web)

![](/business/images/touch.svg )

#### Security

Discover how security features built into Apple platforms make your apps
secure and ready for work.

  * [Secure your app](/videos/play/wwdc2020/10189/)
  * [Apple Platform Security](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/welcome/web)
  * [Fine-tune your App Transport Security settings](/news/?id=jxky8h89)
  * [Improve the sign-in experience and security in your app](/news/?id=3nu5yfka)

![](/business/images/network.svg)

#### Networking

Connect your apps to the cloud, servers on a private network, and nearby
devices to get your users the data they need.

  * [Ready, set, relay: Protect app traffic with network relays](/videos/play/wwdc2023/10002/)
  * [Network framework](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network)
  * [Choosing the right networking API](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/technotes/tn3151-choosing-the-right-networking-api)

## Distribute

Distribute apps that integrate seamlessly with businesses everywhere. Whether
you’re distributing apps on the App Store or directly to your employees,
discover the range of options available to deliver apps to your audience.

![](/assets/elements/icons/apple-business-manager/apple-business-
manager-64x64_2x.png)

##### Custom app distribution with Apple Business Manager

Privately distribute apps to partners, clients, franchisees, and employees.

  * [Custom Apps Overview](/custom-apps/)
  * [Learn more](/videos/play/wwdc2020/10667/)

![](/assets/elements/icons/app-store-s/app-store-s-64x64_2x.png)

##### Unlisted app distribution on the App Store

Release your apps as unlisted on the App Store, discoverable only with a
direct link.

  * [Explore unlisted app distribution](/videos/play/tech-talks/10892/)
  * [Learn more](/support/unlisted-app-distribution/)

![](/business/images/mdm-64x64_2x.png)

##### In-house app distribution through MDM

Distribute proprietary in-house apps directly to internal employees.

  * [Distribute in-house apps to Apple devices](https://support.apple.com/guide/deployment/distribute-proprietary-in-house-apps-depce7cefc4d/web)
  * [Exploring Apple's MDM Framework](https://it-training.apple.com/tutorials/deployment/dm010)

#### Start your enrollment

![](/apple-logo.svg)

##### Apple Developer Program

Get started with the Apple Developer Program to distribute your apps on the
App Store — including unlisted apps on the App Store and custom app
distribution with Apple Business Manager.

[Learn more](/programs/)

![](/apple-logo.svg)

##### Apple Developer Enterprise Program

Join the Apple Developer Enterprise Program to distribute in-house apps to
employees.

[Learn more](/programs/enterprise/)

