# Infinite possibilities

Developing for Apple platforms puts the cutting-edge technology of iOS,
iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, visionOS, and watchOS at your fingertips, giving you
limitless ways to bring incredible apps to users around the world. These
powerful platforms each offer unique capabilities and user experiences, yet
integrate tightly to form a true ecosystem. Hardware, software, and services
are designed from the ground up to work together so you can build intuitive,
multi-faceted experiences that are genuinely seamless.

![](/assets/elements/icons/sdk-26/sdk-26-128x128_2x.png)

## What’s new for Apple developers

Explore new and updated technologies across Apple platforms, so you can create
your best apps yet.

[Learn more](/whats-new/)

## iOS

Create great apps and games for the world’s most advanced mobile operating
system. Take advantage of the new design, which elevates the content people
care about most — and creates a unified design across Apple platforms. And
with Apple Intelligence, you can bring personal intelligence into your apps to
deliver new capabilities, all with great performance and built-in privacy.

[Explore what’s new in iOS](/ios/)

![](/discover/images/ios-s_2x.png)

## iPadOS

iPadOS provides productivity features that let you deliver compelling
collaboration experiences and build capable, intuitive apps and powerful pro
workflows. You can bring desktop-class features to your iPad app, and offer
widgets and Live Activities. Metal helps your games and pro apps tap into the
full potential of Apple silicon on the latest generations of iPad Pro and iPad
Air. And more.

[Explore what’s new in iPadOS](/ipados/)

![](/discover/images/ipados-s_2x.png)

## macOS

Build great apps and games for macOS that take full advantage of the powerful
capabilities of Mac. Create a stunning new look for your apps with Liquid
Glass. Provide users with seamless access to your app content across the
system with widgets, Live Activities, and App Intents. You can unlock powerful
and immersive experiences through new technologies like Metal 4 and the Video
Effects API. And maximize the performance of apps and games by building them
natively for Apple silicon.

[Explore what’s new in macOS](/macos/)

![](/discover/images/macos-s_2x.png)

## watchOS

Bring the best of your app to the wrist. Take advantage of health and fitness
APIs, widgets in the Smart Stack, and Live Activities. And find out how the
new design elevates the content people care about most — right when they need
it.

[Explore what’s new in watchOS](/watchos/)

![](/discover/images/watchos-s_2x.png)

## visionOS

Apple Vision Pro offers an infinite canvas to explore, experiment, and play —
giving you the freedom to completely rethink your app’s spatial computing
experience. Using familiar frameworks and tools, you can design and build an
entirely new universe of apps and games for Vision Pro.

[Explore what’s new in visionOS](/visionos/)

![](/discover/images/visionos_2x.png)

## tvOS

Elevate the living room experience with great features that entertain, engage,
and connect people. Sidebar support lets you easily customize your navigation
experience to your brand and catalog, Continuity Camera connections can be
made persistent, so your app will be ready for a work meeting or dance party,
and Automatic Sign-In simplifies how people get started across all their
devices.

[Explore what’s new in tvOS](/tvos/)

![](/discover/images/tvos-s_2x.png)

![](/assets/elements/icons/xcode-s/xcode-s-256x256_2x.png)
![](/assets/elements/icons/xcode-s-dark/xcode-s-dark-256x256_2x.png)

## Xcode

Xcode offers the tools you need to develop, test, and distribute apps for
Apple platforms, including predictive code completion, generative intelligence
powered by the best coding models, advanced profiling and debugging tools, and
simulators for Apple devices.

[Learn about Xcode](/xcode/)

[Learn about Swift](/swift/)

![](/assets/elements/icons/app-store-s/app-store-s-128x128_2x.png)
![](/assets/elements/icons/app-store-s-dark/app-store-s-dark-128x128_2x.png)

## App Store

The App Store makes it easy for people on Apple platforms to discover and
download your apps and games. And with a customer base that confidently
purchases content through the safe, seamless buying experience of the App
Store in 175 regions worldwide, you can turn your apps into incredible
opportunities.

[Learn about the App Store](/app-store/)

![](/app-store/features/images/members.svg)

## Apple Developer Program

Membership provides the tools, resources, and support you need to develop and
distribute apps and games, including access to app services, testing tools,
app analytics, and more.

[Learn about membership](/programs/)

