[Enroll in the App Store Small Business Program](/app-store/small-business-
program/)  

# App Store

The App Store lets you easily deliver apps to hundreds of millions of people
around the world on their iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple Watch, and Apple
Vision Pro. With over $320 billion paid to developers and a rapid adoption
rate of new software by Apple customers, it’s an incredible time to distribute
on Apple platforms.

[Explore what’s new](/app-store/whats-new/)

[Learn more](/app-store/)

## [In-App Purchase The App Store provides a powerful commerce system that
makes it simple to offer your content and services across Apple platforms to
people around the world. Facilitating billions of transactions annually, it
handles end-to-end payment processing — so you can focus on creating great
apps and games that people will love. Learn more ![](/in-app-
purchase/images/lockup-hero-large_2x.png) ](/in-app-purchase/) ## [visionOS
Apple Vision Pro has a brand-new App Store, where people can discover and
download all the incredible apps for visionOS. Whether you’ve created a new
visionOS app or are making your existing iPad or iPhone app available on Apple
Vision Pro, learn how to prepare your app for the App Store. Learn more ![A
screenshot of the App Store for Apple Vision Pro as it appears in a living
room. The screenshot contains a large image of the Ursa Major constellation
with the headline “Explore the Cosmos.”](/distribute/images/visionos-app-
store_2x.jpg?2) ](/visionos/submit/) ## [macOS Learn how the Mac App Store
beautifully showcases your apps and makes them even easier to find, and how
Developer ID and notarization make it safer for users to install apps that you
distribute yourself. Learn about distribution on macOS
![](/distribute/images/screen-mac-app-store-large_2x.jpg)
](/macos/distribution/)

### [iPhone and iPad apps on the Mac App Store iPhone and iPad apps are
available without modification on Apple silicon Macs, opening new
possibilities for users and developers alike. Learn more ](/help/app-store-
connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-of-iphone-and-ipad-
apps-on-macs-with-apple-silicon/)

## [Safari extensions Enhance and customize the web browsing experience on
iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Vision Pro with Safari extensions. Using powerful
native APIs and frameworks, as well as familiar web technologies such as HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript, you can easily create Safari extensions in Xcode and
distribute them on the App Store or get them notarized for distribution
outside the Mac App Store. Learn about Safari extensions ![Safari Web
Extensions on MacOS, iPadOS, and iOS](/distribute/images/extensions-hero-
large_2x.png) ](/safari/extensions/) ## [Distribution options in the European
Union (EU) Eligible developers on the alternative business terms in the EU can
distribute iOS and iPadOS apps on the App Store, on alternative app
marketplaces or their website, or operate an alternative app marketplace in
the EU. Learn more ](/support/dma-and-apps-in-the-eu/)

### [Submitting your apps Learn how to prepare your iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple
TV, Apple Vision Pro, and Apple Watch apps for submission to App Review. Learn
more ](/app-store/submitting/)

### [Promoting your apps Get marketing assets to help promote your apps, and
learn about getting featured on the App Store. Learn more ](/app-
store/promote/)

## Badges and marketing resources

Let customers know that your product uses or is designed for Apple
technologies.

[Learn more](/licensing-trademarks/)

[ ![Works with Apple Health](/softwarelicensing/images/works-with-apple-
health.svg) ](/health-fitness/works-with-apple-health/)

[ ![Add to Apple Wallet](/wallet/images/add-to-apple-wallet.svg)
](/wallet/add-to-apple-wallet-guidelines/)

[ ![Apple Pay](/assets/elements/icons/apple-pay/apple-pay.svg) ](/apple-
pay/marketing/)

[ ![](/app-store/features/images/members.svg) Apple Developer ProgramOne
membership. All platforms. Join the Apple Developer Program to reach customers
around the world on the App Store for iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, Apple
Watch, Apple Vision Pro, and iMessage. You’ll also get access to advanced app
capabilities, extensive beta testing tools, and app analytics. Learn about
membership ](/programs/)

