[See what’s new in education](/videos/business-education/)

# Building Apps for Education

Learn how to use the latest features on Apple platforms to build and optimize
your apps for the classroom.

## Development

### Reporting student progress with ClassKit

With the ClassKit framework, you can help teachers easily discover specific
learning activities in your app, take students directly to the right activity
with a single tap, and securely and privately share progress data to help
teachers personalize instruction.

[Learn more about ClassKit](/classkit/)

### Customizing experiences for Shared iPads

Your app can deliver personalized experiences for each student, even when they
share iPads in class. Optimize your app for the Shared iPad feature to save
login credentials and states to the keychain, so students can automatically
sign in to your app and pick up right where they left off. Find out how to
optimize your app and how to let schools know about it.

[Learn about Shared iPad](/education/shared-ipad/)

#### Tools for teaching

Learn how apps and tools on Apple platforms make it easy for teachers to
manage devices and educational apps in the classroom, and provide valuable
insight into each student’s progress.

[Learn more](https://www.apple.com/education/k12/teaching-tools/)

### Creating coding experiences with Swift Playground

Education and robotics developers interested in offering text-based coding
experiences can create Swift Playground Books for iPad. The Swift Playground
app was launched with iOS 10 and is recommended for students 12 years of age
or older.

[Learn more about Swift Playground](/swift-playground/)

  * [Playground Book Format Reference](/documentation/swift_playgrounds/)

### Securing iPads used for assessments

Assessment developers can easily lock down an iPad using the Automatic
Assessment Configuration entitlement, with no device management required. Find
out how to apply for and implement this entitlement.

  * [What’s new in assessment](/videos/play/wwdc2020/10005/)
  * [Set up your iPad to give tests and assessments](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204775/)

## Management

### Making it easy to set preferences

Most schools use Mobile Device Management to manage their iPads. Your app can
work with Mobile Device Management services to allow school administrators to
easily set preferences for your app across many devices.

  * [What’s new in Managing Apple Devices](/videos/play/wwdc2025/258/)
  * [ManagedApp framework](/documentation/ManagedApp/)

#### IT and deployment

It’s never been easier to put Apple products in the hands of students and
teachers. We’ve simplified the set up process so you can enroll everyone in
your school quickly, configure devices automatically, and seamlessly buy and
distribute apps and books.

[Learn about deployment](https://www.apple.com/education/k12/it/)

## Distribution

### Apple School Manager

All apps on the App Store are automatically available for volume purchase in
Apple School Manager, which is where educational institutions download apps
for volume distribution. You can offer your apps to educational institutions
for a reduced price or identify specific organizations you’d like to let
download your app.

[Learn about Apple School Manager](https://support.apple.com/guide/apple-
school-manager/welcome/web/)

### Offer custom apps

You can meet the unique needs of educational institutions by privately
offering apps you’ve customized just for them on Apple School Manager.
Educational institutions can also use this feature to distribute proprietary
apps for internal use.

[Learn about distributing apps on Apple School Manager](/support/volume-
purchase-and-custom-apps/)

#### Offering an education discount

You can enable a 50% discount for educational institutions that purchase 20 or
more copies of your iOS app or Mac app. Opt your apps in or out of special
pricing at any time in App Store Connect.

[Learn more](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/set-
distribution-methods/)

