## Join us around the world for a variety of sessions, labs, and workshops —
tailored for you.

[Browse the full schedule](/events/view/upcoming-events)

![](/events/images/collection-location.svg)

#### Browse by location

Find out what's happening near you.

[Bangkok](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Bangkok)  
[Beijing](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Beijing)  
[Bengaluru](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Bengaluru)  
[Cupertino](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Cupertino)  
[Delhi](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Delhi)  
[Ho Chi Minh City](/events/view/upcoming-
events?locations=Ho%20Chi%20Minh%20City)  
[London](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=London)  
[Mexico City](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Mexico%20City)  
[Miami](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Miami)  
[Munich](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Munich)  

[New York](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=New%20York)  
[Paris](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Paris)  
[São Paulo](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=São%20Paulo)  
[Seoul](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Seoul)  
[Shanghai](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Shanghai)  
[Singapore](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Singapore)  
[Sydney](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Sydney)  
[Tel Aviv](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Tel%20Aviv)  
[Tokyo](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Tokyo)  
[Toronto](/events/view/upcoming-events?locations=Toronto)

![](/events/images/collection-lang.svg)

#### Browse by language

Search for activities in your preferred languages.

[Brazilian Portuguese](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=pt_br)  
[English](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=en)  
[French](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=fr)  
[Japanese](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=ja)  
[Korean](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=ko)  
[Mandarin](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=zh_Hans)  
[Spanish](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=es)  
[Thai](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=th)  
[Vietnamese](/events/view/upcoming-events?languages=vi)  

Browse the full schedule.

[See all](/events/view/upcoming-events)

## Watch Meet with Apple videos

Catch up on the latest recordings of sessions and code-alongs to learn from
Apple experts, explore new technologies, and get guidance to help you build
even better apps and games.

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/BC742FC2-04CD-4DDA-9F29-C074010922E7/10607/10607_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
Code along with the Foundation Models framework ](/videos/play/meet-with-
apple/205/)

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/1AAA030E-2ECA-47D8-AE09-6D7B72A840F6/10044_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
Explore the biggest updates from WWDC25 ](/videos/play/meet-with-apple/201/)

## Activities

Apple developer activities are for everyone, no matter where you are on your
development journey. Activities take place all year long, both online and in
person around the world. Whether you’re looking to enhance your existing app
or game, refine your design, or launch a new project, there’s something for
you.

![](/assets/elements/icons/symbols/rectangle-person.svg)

#### Sessions

Sessions are presentations that explore the latest in Apple tools,
technologies, features, and best practices.

![](/assets/elements/icons/symbols/person-bubble-fill.svg)

#### Appointments

Appointments are one-on-one meetings with Apple experts for guidance on your
app or game.

![](/assets/elements/icons/symbols/flask-fill.svg)

#### Labs

Labs provide hands-on opportunities to test and optimize your apps for Apple
platforms.

![](/assets/elements/icons/symbols/rectangle-hand-fill-m.svg)

#### Workshops

Workshops are interactive experiences that allow you to dive into new features
and technologies in small group settings.

![](/assets/elements/icons/symbols/person-lanyardcard-fill.svg)

#### Special events

Special events include a variety of activities designed to inspire, guide, and
connect the Apple developer community.

## Discover more

[ ![](/events/images/swift-playgrounds-card_2x.jpg) Workshop: Code Your First
App Code and create as a family with Swift Playground at an Apple Store near
you. View times and locations ](https://www.apple.com/today/event/coding-lab-
code-your-first-app/)

[ ![](/events/images/program-academies_2x.jpg) Apple Developer Academies
Sharpen your development skills with a full, free curriculum for future
professional developers at the Apple Developer Academies. Learn more
](/academies/)

