# Fonts for Apple platforms

Get the typefaces you need to design interfaces for your apps on Apple
platforms. These typefaces are designed to optimally display text at a variety
of sizes and in a wide range of languages across multiple interfaces.

![](/fonts/images/fonts-hero-large_2x.png)

## San Francisco

San Francisco is an Apple designed typeface that provides a consistent,
legible, and friendly typographic voice. Across all Apple products, the size-
specific outlines and dynamic tracking ensure optimal legibility at every
point size and screen resolution. Numbers have proportional widths by default,
so they feel harmonious and naturally spaced within the time and data-centric
interfaces people use every day.

Nine weights, including italics — and features like small caps, fractions,
inferior and superior numerals, indices, arrows, and more — offer breadth and
depth for precision typesetting. San Francisco also adapts intelligently to
different contexts. When indicating time, for example, the colon in San
Francisco switches to a vertically centered form. And each operating system
works with the typeface to apply size-specific font features automatically.

![](/fonts/images/san-francisco-light_2x.png) ![](/fonts/images/san-francisco-
dark_2x.png)

#### SF Pro

This neutral, flexible, sans-serif typeface is the system font for iOS,
iPadOS, macOS and tvOS. SF Pro features nine weights, variable optical sizes
for optimal legibility, four widths, and includes a rounded variant. SF Pro
supports over 150 languages across Latin, Greek, and Cyrillic scripts.

[Download SF Pro](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/SF-Pro.dmg)

#### SF Compact

Sharing many features with SF Pro, SF Compact features an efficient, compact
design that is optimized for small sizes and narrow columns. SF Compact is the
system font for watchOS and includes a rounded variant.

[Download SF Compact](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/SF-Compact.dmg)

#### SF Mono

This monospaced variant of San Francisco enables alignment between rows and
columns of text, and is used in coding environments like Xcode. SF Mono
features six weights and supports Latin, Greek, and Cyrillic scripts.

[Download SF Mono](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/SF-Mono.dmg)

#### New York

A companion to San Francisco, this serif typeface is based on essential
aspects of historical type styles. New York features six weights, supports
Latin, Greek, and Cyrillic scripts, and features variable optical sizes
allowing it to perform as a traditional reading face at small sizes and a
graphic display face at larger sizes.

[Download New York](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/NY.dmg)

### SF Script Extensions

Like San Francisco, these extensions to the Apple system font feature nine
weights, a rounded variant, and variable optical sizes that automatically
adjust spacing and proportion based on the point size.

Each script extension has been designed to fit with SF Pro for multilingual
typesetting, while respecting the natural proportions for each script by
adjusting weight, contrast, and vertical metrics.

#### SF Arabic

A contemporary interpretation of the Naskh style with a rational and flexible
design.

[Download SF Arabic](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/SF-Arabic.dmg)

#### SF Armenian

Designed with proportions that have been adjusted for a better visual balance
in multilingual typesetting.

[Download SF Armenian](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/SF-Armenian.dmg)

#### SF Georgian

Supports modern Georgian, Mkhedruli, and Mtavruli uppercase forms.

[Download SF Georgian](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/SF-Georgian.dmg)

#### SF Hebrew

With full support of the Niqqud diacritical marks.

[Download SF Hebrew](https://devimages-
cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/SF-Hebrew.dmg)

### Human Interface Guidelines

Read the Human Interface Guidelines to learn how to use these fonts in your
apps on Apple platforms.

[Explore typography guidelines](/design/human-interface-guidelines/typography)

![](/fonts/images/hig-typography_2x.png)

### Videos

Gain insight into typographic principles and how they apply to the San
Francisco fonts, the result of a deep collaboration between design and
engineering teams. This typeface defers to the content it displays to give
text unmatched legibility, clarity, and consistency.

[Watch session videos](/videos/all-videos/?q=font)

![](/fonts/images/session-videos_2x.jpg)

## Frameworks and tools

Use the latest frameworks in Xcode to integrate dynamic text handling and
typesetting capabilities into your app.

### SwiftUI

SwiftUI provides custom text management across all Apple platforms.

[Learn about displaying fonts in SwiftUI](/documentation/swiftui/text-input-
and-output)

### UIKit

UIKit provides custom text management and rendering across Apple platforms.

[Learn about using UIKit to display
fonts](/documentation/uikit/text_display_and_fonts/)

### AppKit

AppKit provides font selection, text processing, and rendering for macOS.

[Learn about fonts for macOS](/documentation/appkit/fonts/)

### SF Symbols

SF Symbols 6 brings more than 800 new symbols, updated annotation tools, and
new and enhanced configurable animations that make symbols even more
expressive.

[Learn about SF Symbols](/sf-symbols/)

### Core Text

This text engine and API for Apple platforms provides sophisticated text
handling and typesetting capabilities for managing adaptive user interfaces.

[Learn about Core Text](/documentation/coretext/)

### Apple Font Tool Suite

This suite of command-line tools includes an installer package, tutorial, user
documentation, and reference.

[Download tools](/download/all/?q=font)

## TrueType and AAT

Get specifications for the TrueType font format and the Apple Advanced
Typography (AAT) Font Feature Registry for advanced font rendering.

[Apple TrueType Reference Manual](/fonts/TrueType-Reference-Manual/)

[AAT Font Feature Registry](/fonts/TrueType-Reference-
Manual/RM09/AppendixF.html)

