# Build for iPadOS

Build apps and games for the distinct iPad experience. Take advantage of the
new design, which elevates the content users care about most. Create more
customized apps that appear in more places across the system with controls,
widgets, and Live Activities. And with Apple Intelligence, you can bring
personal intelligence into your apps to deliver new capabilities, all with
great performance and built-in privacy.

![](/ipados/images/hero-ipad-m4-ipados26-light_2x.jpg)
![](/ipados/images/hero-ipad-m4-ipados26-dark_2x.jpg)

## Get to know iPadOS

  * New design

### Say hello to Liquid Glass

More about this tile

  * Apple Intelligence

### Tap into the on-device large language model

![](/assets/elements/icons/apple-intelligence/apple-
intelligence-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * App Intents

### Core functions throughout the system

![](/assets/elements/icons/app-intents/app-intents-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Apple Pencil

### Pixel-perfect precision and industry-leading low latency

More about this tile

  * Live Activities

### Important information, right now

![](/assets/elements/icons/actikitykit/activitykit-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Notifications

### Communicate with users — even when your app isn’t running

![](/assets/elements/icons/notifications/notifications-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Multitasking

### Help people get more done

More about this tile

### [What’s new in iPadOS 26 Dive into the latest key technologies and
capabilities. ![](/assets/elements/icons/ios-ipados-26/ios-
ipados-26-256x256.png) ](/ipados/whats-new/)

### [New to iPadOS development? Check out the iPadOS Pathway, an easy-to-
navigate collection of resources to get started. ![](/pathways/images/hero-
pathways-b-small_2x.png) ](/ipados/get-started/)

## Developer stories

[ ![](/articles/images/article-carrot-weather-2_2x.jpg) The reign of Carrot
Weather Learn how Brian Mueller harnessed the power of iPadOS to make a
weather app for “meatbags” everywhere. Read more ](/news/?id=kf623ldf)

[ ![](/articles/images/article-goodnotes_2x.png) The long history of Goodnotes
The note-taking app has been maximizing the power of iPadOS since Day 1. Read
more ](/articles/goodnotes/)

[ ![](/articles/images/article-apple-pencil-procreate_2x.jpg) Powering up
Procreate Find out how Apple Pencil helped level up this world‑class iPad app
for creatives. Read more ](/news/?id=23ksaoks)

### [Meet with Apple Sharpen your skills through in-person and online
activities around the world. Explore the schedule ](/events/view/upcoming-
events/)

[ ![](/assets/elements/icons/instruments/instruments-96x96_2x.png) Resources
Browse tools, documentation, sample code, videos, and more. Explore and
download resources ](/ipados/resources/)

## Explore more Apple platforms

Create great apps and games that integrate seamlessly with all Apple
platforms. Build once and deploy to a unified ecosystem.

[ iOS ](/ios/) [ macOS ](/macos/) [ tvOS ](/tvos/) [ visionOS ](/visionos/) [
watchOS ](/watchos/) [ Games ](/games/)

