# Build apps. Build your future.

With Swift, anyone can code like the pros. Whether you’re working on a project
for school, earning an industry-recognized credential, or just looking to
build your skills, Swift makes it easy to create great apps for all Apple
platforms — no coding experience necessary.

[ ![Michelle Ayala, a software engineering student and Swift Student Challenge
2024 winner, works on her MacBook at a colorful outdoor
table.](/learn/images/student-studying-table-large_2x.jpg?3)
](https://www.apple.com/education/college-students/success-stories/ayala/)

For software engineering student Michelle Ayala, app development is a way to
bring her creativity into the world and foster connections between people. She
first developed a passion for coding in a Swift Coding Club and then went on
to win the Swift Student Challenge 2024 with her app Be Kind.

Get updates about student developer events and programming.

[Notify me](/swift-student-challenge/notify/)

* * *

## Develop in Swift Tutorials

Learn how to build amazing apps for Apple platforms with easy-to-follow
instructions. Build great-looking apps with Swift and SwiftUI, dive into
spatial computing, and build with machine learning models.

[Get started](https://developer.apple.com/tutorials/develop-in-swift/)

![](/learn/images/tutorial-foundation_2x.png)

##### Foundations

Start your app development journey by getting to know Xcode, Swift, and
SwiftUI.

![](/learn/images/tutorial-data_2x.png)

##### Data modeling

Practice building relational data models with SwiftData.

![](/learn/images/tutorial-ml_2x.png)

NEW

##### Machine learning

Get started with machine learning models and frameworks.

![](/learn/images/tutorial-spatial_2x.png)

##### Spatial computing

Build app experiences for spatial computing.

If you’re an educator, check out the [Develop in Swift Tutorials Educator
Guide](https://atlc.apple.com/downloads/Develop_in_Swift_Tutorials_Educator_Guide.pdf).

### Do more together. Start a Swift Coding Club.

Whether you’re just starting out or taking your learning further, Swift Coding
Clubs are a great way to expand your app development skills as you design,
prototype, build meaningful apps, and get ready for the Swift Student
Challenge.

[Learn more](/learn/swift-coding-club/)

![A Swift Coding Club group working on iPad and Mac.](/swift-student-
challenge/images/swift-coding-club-life_2x.jpg)

## Explore the tools

#### Swift Playground

If you’re new to app development, try [Swift Playground](/swift-playground/),
which includes everything you need to go from your first line of code to
building your first app.

[Download Swift Playground for iPad](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/swift-
playgrounds/id908519492)

[Download Swift Playground for Mac](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/swift-
playgrounds/id1496833156?mt=12)

#### Xcode

If you’re already familiar with app development, try [Xcode](/xcode/), Apple’s
powerful, integrated development environment, used by professionals around the
world to develop, test, and distribute their apps.

[Download from the Mac App
Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12)

[Learn more about Xcode 16](/xcode/)

## Get recognized

#### [Swift Student Challenge Showcase your creativity and build real-world
skills to prepare for your career and beyond. Learn more ](/swift-student-
challenge/)

#### [App Development with Swift certification Accelerate your future career
with App Development with Swift certification. Learn more
](https://certiport.pearsonvue.com/Certifications/Apple/App-Dev-With-
Swift/Overview)

#### Get to know Apple platforms

[![](/learn/images/device-ios.svg) iOS](/ios/planning/)
[![](/learn/images/device-ipados.svg) iPadOS](/ipados/planning/)
[![](/learn/images/device-macos.svg) macOS](/macos/planning/)
[![](/learn/images/device-tvos.svg) tvOS](/tvos/planning/)
[![](/learn/images/device-watchos.svg) watchOS](/watchos/planning/)
[![](/learn/images/device-vision.svg) visionOS](/visionos/planning/)
[![](/learn/images/device-games.svg) Games](/games/planning/)

## Discover more

  * [ Apple Developer Academies Sharpen your development skills with a full, free curriculum for future professional developers at the Apple Developer Academies. Learn more ](/academies/)
  * [ WWDC24 highlights Browse the biggest moments from an incredible week of sessions. Learn more ](/news/?id=o38yplz0)
  * [ Meet with Apple Join us around the world for a variety of sessions, appointments, labs, and more — tailored for you. Learn more ](/events/)
  * [ Apple Developer Program Membership provides the tools, resources, and support you need to develop and distribute apps and games. Learn more ](/programs/)

