# Develop for macOS

Build great apps and games for macOS that take full advantage of the powerful
capabilities of Mac. Create a stunning new look for your apps with Liquid
Glass. Provide users with seamless access to your app content across the
system with widgets, Live Activities, and App Intents. You can unlock powerful
and immersive experiences through new technologies like Metal 4 and the Video
Effects API. And maximize the performance of apps and games by building them
natively for Apple silicon.

![](/macos/images/screen-macos26-large_2x.jpg)

## Get to know macOS

  * New design

### Say hello to Liquid Glass

More about this tile

  * Apple Intelligence

### Tap into the on-device large language model

![](/assets/elements/icons/apple-intelligence/apple-
intelligence-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * App Intents

### Core functions throughout the system

![](/assets/elements/icons/app-intents/app-intents-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Metal-powered games

### Astonishing realism for incredible creativity

![](/assets/elements/icons/metal/metal-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Live Activities

### Important information, right now

![](/assets/elements/icons/actikitykit/activitykit-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Video Effects API

### Exponential visual storytelling

More about this tile

  * Widgets

### Timely, elevated information

![](/assets/elements/icons/widgetkit/widgetkit-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

### [What’s new in macOS 26 Dive into the latest key technologies and
capabilities. ![](/assets/elements/icons/macos-26/macos-26-256x256.png)
](/macos/whats-new/)

### [New to macOS development? Check out the macOS Pathway, an easy-to-
navigate collection of resources to get started. ![](/pathways/images/hero-
pathways-b-small_2x.png) ](/macos/get-started/)

## Developer stories

[ ![](/articles/images/article-lop_2x.jpg) Masters of puppets How ROUND8
Studio carved out a niche for Lies of P on Mac. Read more
](/news/?id=jimo1g6z)

[ ![](/articles/images/article-acs_2x.jpg) Assassin’s Creed Shadows Find out
how Ubisoft brought its "most ambitious" game to Mac. Read more
](/news/?id=q2zte70j)

[ ![](/articles/images/article-tide-0_2x.jpg) The rise of Tide Guide Find out
how Tucker Macdonald built a world-class tide tracker for Mac. Read more
](/news/?id=4r9b23wx)

### [Meet with Apple Sharpen your skills through in-person and online
activities around the world. Explore the schedule ](/events/view/upcoming-
events/)

[ ![](/assets/elements/icons/instruments/instruments-96x96_2x.png) Resources
Browse tools, documentation, sample code, videos, and more. Explore and
download resources ](/macos/resources/)

## Explore more Apple platforms

Create great apps and games that integrate seamlessly with all Apple
platforms. Build once and deploy to a unified ecosystem.

[ iOS ](/ios/) [ iPadOS ](/ipados/) [ tvOS ](/tvos/) [ visionOS ](/visionos/)
[ watchOS ](/watchos/) [ Games ](/games/)

