![](/assets/elements/icons/maps/maps-96x96_2x.png)

# Unlock the power of Apple Maps

Apple Maps is the best way to navigate and explore the world. MapKit lets you
bring the world’s most detailed city experiences from Apple Maps to your apps
and websites, all with a focus on privacy. The Maps Server API enables you to
create more functional experiences across platforms, and SwiftUI lets you
easily integrate Maps into your apps.

## What’s new

Discover the latest MapKit and MapKit JS updates that provide people with even
better ways to navigate and explore. These updates allow you to:

  * Incorporate interactive 360-degree imagery to bring your website to life with [Look Around](/maps/sample-code/interactive-look-around/) for MapKit JS.
  * Give people more options to get where they’re going with cycling directions.
  * Bring the power of Maps to your watchOS app with an expanded API offering that includes support for search, directions, and more.
  * Easily display names and addresses of locations around the world with the new Address Representations API.

[Watch the latest videos about Maps](/videos/maps-location/)

![](/assets/elements/icons/mapkit/mapkit-64x64_2x.png)

## MapKit

Use MapKit to give your apps a sense of place. Load Apple Maps directly into
app windows and views, add annotations and overlays to call out points of
interest, and offer text-completion to make it easier for people to search for
a destination.

[View documentation](/documentation/mapkit/)

![An iPhone displaying Apple Maps in 3D](/maps/images/screen-mapkit-
iphone14-large_2x.png)

![](/maps/images/camera-metering.svg)

#### Snapshots

Create stunning map views for your app by taking advantage of optimized camera
and pitch controls.

![](/maps/images/globe.svg)

#### Geocoding

Convert human-readable addresses to geographic coordinates and vice versa.

![](/maps/images/look-around.svg)

#### Look Around

Include interactive panoramas to provide street-level views.

![](/maps/images/annotate.svg)

#### Annotations

Create custom annotations to call out a place, add user-friendly descriptions,
and cluster groups of places.

![](/maps/images/overlays.svg)

#### Overlays

Add overlays and blend modes to highlight geographic regions or paths.

![](/maps/images/search.svg)

#### Search

Search the map for relevant locations nearby and provide automatic search
completions based on users’ queries.

![](/maps/images/mappin-and-elipse.svg)

#### Places

Display beautiful place cards including helpful place details directly in your
app or website.

![](/maps/images/directions.svg)

#### Directions

Offer directions and travel times based on start and end points that users
provide.

## MapKit JS

MapKit JS lets you embed interactive maps directly into your websites across
platforms and operating systems, including macOS, Windows, and Android. Like
MapKit for apps, you can also add annotations and overlays to the map to call
out points of interest or user destinations.

  * [View documentation](/documentation/mapkitjs/)
  * [View sample code](/maps/sample-code/)

![](/maps/images/screen-hero-medium_2x.png)

![](/maps/images/maps-server-api.svg)

## Maps Server API

Create efficiencies across platforms for a variety of Apple Maps features,
such as geocoding, search, and estimated time of arrival. The Maps Server API
uses REST principles to increase performance, lower data usage, and improve
battery life.

  * [View documentation](/documentation/applemapsserverapi/)
  * [Try Maps Server API](/maps/try-maps-server-api/)

![](/maps/images/resources.svg)

## Resources

Find the tools, documentation, and resources you need to integrate Apple Maps
into your apps and websites.

[View all resources](/maps/resources/)

