![MacBook Pro showing an example app in Xcode](/xcode-cloud/images/hero-xc-
large_2x.png)

# From code to customer

Join the Apple Developer Program to reach customers around the world on the
App Store for all Apple platforms. Membership provides the tools, resources,
and support you need to develop and distribute apps and games, including
access to app services, testing tools, app analytics, and more.

![](/assets/elements/icons/sdk-26/sdk-26-128x128_2x.png)

## Get the latest betas

Be ready for what’s coming next. Apple customers adopt new software rapidly,
so you can keep innovating. Integrate the latest Apple technologies in your
apps to deliver incredible experiences on Apple platforms as soon as they’re
released.

[View the latest releases](/news/releases/)

## Access comprehensive services and capabilities

Leverage Apple’s tightly integrated hardware, software, services, and
capabilities to create useful and engaging experiences. Offer special content
and services with In‑App Purchase, new ways to experience your app through
spatial computing, intelligent features with on-device machine learning, a
quick way to purchase items using Apple Pay, and much more.

[View tools and services](/programs/whats-included/)

## Test your apps

Collect valuable feedback before releasing your apps and App Clips. With
TestFlight, you can invite up to 10,000 external users to try out your beta
builds using just their email address or by sharing a public link.

[Learn more about TestFlight](/testflight/)

![A MacBook, iPad, and iPhone, each showing developer stories featured on the
App Store.](/programs/images/lockup-gf-hero-large_2x.png)

## Distribute apps worldwide

When you join the Apple Developer Program, you’re eligible to reach customers
around the world on all Apple platforms. The App Store makes it easy for users
in 175 regions to discover and download your apps, games, and extensions
across Apple platforms. Apple handles worldwide payment processing, offers
unlimited hosting and bandwidth — even for free apps — verifies user accounts,
and much more. With Apple School Manager and Apple Business Manager, you can
offer your app in volume or custom apps only to organizations you specify. You
can even choose to distribute your Mac apps outside the Mac App Store using
your Developer ID certificate and Apple’s notarization process, reassuring
users that you’re a trusted developer.

[Learn more about distribution](/distribute/)

## Dive deep into analytics

Measure user engagement, marketing campaign performance, monetization, and
more in App Store Connect. You’ll get information only Apple provides and no
technical implementation is required.

[Learn more about App Analytics](/app-store-connect/analytics/)

## Get help from Apple experts

Join a variety of sessions, appointments, labs, and more — tailored for you.
Meet with Apple activities take place in person and online all over the world,
offering you an opportunity to connect directly with Apple engineers and
designers — and create your best apps and games yet.

[Learn more about Meet with Apple](/events/)

