![](/assets/elements/icons/safari/safari-128x128_2x.png)

# Safari for developers

Safari is the best way to experience the internet on iPhone, iPad, and Mac.
Thanks to blazing-fast performance and industry-leading energy efficiency,
millions of users enjoy exploring the web with Safari. Take advantage of
powerful new features, advanced developer tools, and cutting-edge technologies
in Safari to deliver best-in-class websites and apps.

![](/safari/images/screen-hero-macos14-large_2x.jpg)

### Spatial web in Safari

Now you can embed interactive [3D models](/augmented-reality/quick-look/) into
your web page and let users interact with them while they browse in Safari in
visionOS 26. Enable people to see your models in their own space at real size
— they can even drag the models into their space with a single gesture. And
with the new Apple Projected Media Profile (APMP), you can embed 180-degree
and 360-degree videos, as well as wide field-of-view videos.

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/23567C38-0F39-4609-9921-D7DC2B6200E7/9935_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
What’s new for the spatial web ](/videos/play/wwdc2025/237/)

### Safari web extensions

Safari web extensions use HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to offer powerful browser
customizations — and now you can create them for every device that supports
Safari. Learn how to build a Safari web extension that works for all devices,
and how to convert an existing extension to Safari through Xcode or through
Safari Web Extension Packager.

[Learn about Safari Web Extension
Packager](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/safariservices/safari-web-
extensions/get-started-with-the-web-based-safari-web-extension-packager)

![iPad and iPhone displaying Safari Extensions](/safari/images/ipados-ios-
hero-small_2x.png)

### SharePlay in Safari

Create SharePlay experiences that people can enjoy on the web and in your app.
Learn how to use the Group Activities framework in combination with your
website to bring SharePlay to Safari, connecting people through shared
interactions — even if they haven’t yet downloaded your app from the App
Store.

[Learn about Group Activities in Safari](/videos/play/wwdc2021/10189/)

![Shareplay on devices using MacOS, iPadOS, and iOS](/safari/images/lockup-
hero-small_2x.png)

#### Verification codes

Easily create more secure logins for users in iOS 15, iPadOS 15, and macOS
Monterey, or later using the new iCloud Keychain verification codes. Take
advantage of verification codes, AutoFill, iCloud Keychain sync, and two-tap
setup to simplify the multistep sign-in process.

[Learn more](/videos/play/wwdc2021/10105/)

#### Passkeys with WebAuthn

With the Passkeys Technology Preview, you can try a new type of credential
that’s intended to replace passwords. A passkey is a phishing-resistant
WebAuthn credential that’s backed up and synced across devices with iCloud
Keychain. Enable the technology preview using Enable Syncing Platform
Authenticator in the Develop menu.

[Learn more](/documentation/authenticationservices/public-
private_key_authentication/supporting_passkeys/)

#### Split View in Safari on iPad

People can view two websites at once on their iPad using split view.
Responsive Design Mode makes it easy to see how your websites will render in
this view — just tap the iPad preview until it turns into a split view.

[Learn more](/videos/play/wwdc2020/10105/)

#### Apple Pay on the Web

Provide an easy and secure way to make purchases in Safari 10 or later. Apple
Pay lets people quickly pay without entering payment, shipping, or contact
information on supported websites from their Mac, iPhone, or iPad. Because
card numbers aren’t used and each transaction is confirmed with a fingerprint
or passcode, Apple Pay is more secure than accepting credit and debit cards.

[Learn more](/apple-pay/)

#### Web Push in Safari

Send notifications to people who use your website or web app in Safari 16 on
macOS 13 — even when Safari isn’t running. Fully interoperable, Web Push’s
standards-based implementation relies on the Push API, Notification API, and
Service Workers. If you’ve already coded Web Push using industry best
practices, it will automatically work on Safari. And you don’t need to be an
Apple Developer Program member to implement this feature.

[Learn more](/videos/play/wwdc2022/10098/)

![](/assets/elements/icons/safari-technology-preview/safari-technology-
preview-96x96_2x.png) ![](/assets/elements/icons/safari-technology-preview-
dark/safari-technology-preview-dark-96x96_2x.png)

#### Safari Technology Preview

Download Safari Technology Preview to get a sneak peek at upcoming web
technologies in iOS, iPadOS, and macOS, and experiment with them in your
websites and extensions.

[Learn more](/safari/technology-preview/)

