[Watch the latest videos about SF Symbols](/videos/all-
videos/?q=%22SF%20Symbols%22)

![](/assets/elements/icons/sf-symbols-7/sf-symbols-7-96x96_2x.png)

# SF Symbols 7

SF Symbols 7 is a library of over 6,900 symbols designed to integrate
seamlessly with San Francisco, the system font for Apple platforms. Symbols
come in nine weights and three scales, automatically align with text, and can
be exported and edited using vector graphics tools to create custom symbols
with shared design characteristics and accessibility features. SF Symbols 7
introduces Draw animations and variable rendering, enhanced Magic Replace,
gradients, and hundreds of new symbols.

![](/sf-symbols/videos/poster-hero-sf-symbols-7_2x.jpg?1)

## Draw

Draw On and Draw Off are new animation presets inspired by the calligraphic
movement of handwriting, designed to let symbols more expressively animate
into and out of your app’s interface. These animations leverage a symbol’s
layer structure, combined with new annotation and timing choreography, to
guide the symbol’s movement. Multiple playback options offer flexibility for
various contexts: Whole Symbol animates all layers together in a single, swift
movement; By Layer offsets the start time of each layer to create a more
dynamic effect; and Individually animates one layer at a time for a more
deliberate reveal.

## New annotation

New annotation tools make it easy to create Draw animations for custom symbols
with just a few clicks. Place guide points on layers to control how a path
draws from beginning to end. Guide point placement is automatically translated
across weights and can be customized in Ultralight, Regular, and Black to
precisely control movement across all symbol weights and scales. Create
bespoke animations tailored to your custom symbols by leveraging draw
attachments, optional bi-directionality, adaptive end caps, and more.

## Variable Draw

Variable Draw extends the capabilities of Variable Color by conveying strength
or progress with greater precision and resolution. Symbols annotated to
support Draw animations can optionally support Variable Draw, enabling
individual layers to function as informative and dynamic progress indicators.

## Enhanced Magic Replace

Magic Replace now provides greater continuity when animating between related
symbols. If two symbols share an enclosure shape, Magic Replace preserves the
enclosures while the remaining symbol layers animate according to the preset
configuration. Additionally, symbols that support Draw will automatically Draw
Off and Draw On during Magic Replace transitions.

## Gradients

Gradients are commonly used to add depth, dimension, and visual interest to a
symbol. New gradient rendering automatically generates a smooth linear
gradient from a single source color, which can be derived from either system
or custom colors. Gradients elevate symbols with a greater sense of lighting
and are available across all rendering modes.

![](/sf-symbols/videos/poster-sf-symbols-7-gradients_2x.png)

## New symbols

SF Symbols 7 features hundreds of new symbols and design updates to existing
symbols that integrate with Apple’s new universal design language. New
localized symbols include variants across Latin, Greek, Cyrillic, Hebrew,
Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Thai, Devanagari, as well as several Indic
systems. These new symbols are available in apps running iOS 26, iPadOS 26,
macOS 26, watchOS 26, tvOS 26, and visionOS 26.

![](/sf-symbols/videos/poster-sf-symbols-7-new-symbols_2x.png)

### Download SF Symbols 7

![](/assets/elements/icons/sf-symbols-7/sf-symbols-7-96x96_2x.png)

[Download](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/design/resources/download/SF-
Symbols-7.dmg)

Requires macOS Sonoma or later.

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/4F1E5BC7-921E-46C0-927A-D84295787A94/9994_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
What’s new in SF Symbols 7 WWDC25 ](/videos/play/wwdc2025/337/)

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/C03E6E6D-A32A-41D0-9E50-C3C6059820AA/9318/9318_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
What’s new in SF Symbols 6 WWDC24 ](/videos/play/wwdc2024/10188/)

![](/sf-symbols/images/hig-icon_2x.png)

### Explore the Human Interface Guidelines

Get details on how to use SF Symbols in your apps.

[Learn more](/design/human-interface-guidelines/sf-symbols)

