![](/assets/elements/icons/swift-playgrounds/swift-playgrounds-96x96_2x.png)

# Learn to code with Swift Playground

Swift Playground is a revolutionary app for iPad and Mac that helps you learn
to code and build apps using Swift, the same powerful language used to create
world-class apps for the App Store. Engaging lessons and walkthroughs
demonstrate the core concepts of coding and building apps as you write real
Swift code in an interactive environment.

![Mac and iPad using Swift Playground’s interactive code lessons.](/swift-
playground/images/hero-mac5-ipad-large_2x.png)

## Learn and explore

In Swift Playground, a single line of code can make amazing things happen.
You’ll start with small programs called “playgrounds” to learn the basics.
Interactive lessons teach key coding concepts, and additional challenges
encourage you to explore code in exciting new ways. When you’re ready, you can
start coding with SwiftUI, a modern, powerful framework for making great-
looking apps. The results of your code appear instantly as you type, making
learning to code even easier. And when you’re done, it’s easy to share your
creations with friends, or even submit your app to [App Store Connect](/app-
store-connect/).

![iPad using Swift Playground.](/swift-playground/images/screen-learn-explore-
large_2x.png)

## Coding concepts

Swift Playground includes interactive lessons that use puzzles and
experimentation to teach the following core coding concepts, and more:

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/commands.svg) Commands

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/loops.svg) Loops

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/operators.svg) Operators

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/functions.svg) Functions

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/conditional-code.svg) Conditional
statements

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/parameters.svg) Parameters

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/types.svg) Types

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/variables.svg) Variables

![](/swift-playground/images/code-icons/initialization.svg) Initialization

## Real Swift. Real frameworks.

The Swift programming language was designed to be approachable enough to be
your very first programming language. Swift is also incredibly powerful, used
by professional developers to create over half a million apps on the App
Store. Using Swift Playground, you’ll be coding within minutes. Even as you
become more proficient, you’ll never outgrow Swift.

![iPad using Swift Playground.](/swift-playground/images/screen-real-swift-
large_2x.png)

![](/assets/elements/icons/swiftui/swiftui-64x64_2x.png)
![](/assets/elements/icons/metal/metal-64x64_2x.png)
![](/assets/elements/icons/accelerometer/accelerometer-64x64_2x.png) ![iPad
using Swift Playground.](/assets/elements/icons/camera/camera-64x64_2x.png)

With Swift Playground you build apps using SwiftUI, the powerful, modern user
interface framework used by developers worldwide to power their app
experiences. SwiftUI makes it easy to quickly create elegant app experiences
and express your ideas. You can also access key frameworks, such as SpriteKit,
Bluetooth, and Metal. Your code can interact directly with the iPad or Mac on
which it runs. For instance, on iPad your playgrounds respond to touch
gestures and interact with hardware, such as the accelerometer, gyroscope, and
camera.

With support for Swift Packages, Swift Playground makes it easier than ever to
code your creations. Packages are bundles of reusable code that can be created
by you or other developers and included in your projects. With the power of
packages, you can quickly write code which formats data, queries databases,
communicates over a network, and so much more.

## Experiment with code

Sometimes the best way to learn is to explore on your own, and Swift
Playground is a great place to let your imagination run wild. In addition to
the guided Get Started with Code lessons, Swift Playground includes many
challenges so you can keep coming back to try something new. Some challenges
encourage you to play with code to create interesting effects, while others
include engrossing puzzles that require all of your coding skills to solve.

![](/swift-playground/images/screen-experiment-large_2x.png)

Additional starting points included in Swift Playground help you create
playgrounds from scratch. With access to thousands of APIs in the iOS and
macOS SDKs, you can create amazing playgrounds that explore the web, generate
3D worlds, experiment with physics, and much more.

Swift Playground includes the App Gallery to demonstrate common app concepts
such as tabbed navigation and downloading data. Guided walkthroughs show you
interesting and relevant areas of code and help you learn about the powerful
SDKs involved. You can also create your own apps with multiple Swift files,
along with image and audio assets, and leverage the ecosystem of thousands of
existing Swift packages. Send your app projects to friends and collaborate to
bring your creations to life.

## Built for touch

Swift Playground offers tools to make coding easier and reduce mistakes. On
iPad, you can take advantage of touch to create entire programs with only a
few taps on the screen. Swift Playground helps you write correct code by
identifying mistakes as you type and offering suggestions to help correct the
errors.

  * Item 1
  * Item 2
  * Item 3

1

2

3

Coding keyboard. When the time comes for typing, enter numbers and symbols
commonly used in Swift coding by dragging your finger across a key to select
one of the alternate symbols.

Inline code completion. Suggestions intelligently present the most likely next
commands or values based on context. It’s easy to write entire lines of code
with just a few keystrokes.

Touch to edit. Tap a color value to display a color picker or tap an image
value to choose a photo from your library. You can even restructure your code
by simply dragging a brace to wrap around the surrounding code.

  *   * 

## Share across devices

Swift Playground for Mac is built with [Mac Catalyst](/mac-catalyst/), giving
you the ability to edit the exact same code on iPad and Mac. iCloud Drive
seamlessly shares your files, and the changes you make on either iPad or Mac
immediately appear on your other devices. It’s easy to start a project on iPad
and open the file on Mac to keep coding. You can also open app projects in
Xcode on Mac for a more advanced editing experience.

![Mac and iPad using Swift Playground’s sharing code across devices.](/swift-
playground/images/lockup-shared-large_2x.png)

