# Beta testing made simple with TestFlight

TestFlight makes it easy for testers to give feedback on your apps, games, and
App Clips across Apple platforms before you publish. Share your beta with just
your team, or the public. Learn how to get started with TestFlight.

![](/testflight/images/testflight-asc-large_2x.png)

## Get started

To get started with TestFlight, go to the Apps section of App Store Connect
and select the app, game, or App Clip you want to test. You’ll then select the
TestFlight tab and add test information that lets people know what you’d like
them to test, along with any other relevant information they should know.
You’ll also need to provide an email address so you can monitor and respond to
any tester feedback. Keep in mind your beta app description and beta app
review information are required in order to share your beta with external
testers.

Next, upload a beta build of your app, game, or App Clip to App Store Connect.
You can share up to 100 builds, and start testing multiple builds at once.
Once your build is uploaded, you can invite internal and external testers.

[Learn about getting started with TestFlight](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-
beta-version/testflight-overview)

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/8/7498/7498_wide_250x141_2x.jpg) Get started with TestFlight
](/videos/play/tech-talks/110343/)

## Find testers

With TestFlight, it’s easy to find and manage testers. You don’t need to keep
track of UDIDs, or provision tester profiles.

Testers use the [TestFlight app](https://testflight.apple.com/) to view your
invite and install your beta. Your invite includes your beta app description
that highlights new features and content your app or game offers. Apps and
games with an approved version that’s ready for distribution can also include
their screenshots and app category in their invite. And if they don’t accept
your invite, people can leave feedback to let you know why.

Testers can access all available beta builds you’ve shared with them, on up to
30 devices for comprehensive testing.

### Create tester groups

Groups are how you organize and distribute builds to testers. You can [create
multiple groups](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/add-internal-
testers/#create-a-group) and add different builds to each one. For example,
you might want a specific group to focus on testing on a new platform.
Additionally, you can view tester metrics to better evaluate tester engagement
and manage participation.

### Add internal testers

Designate up to 100 members of your development team who hold the Account
Holder, Admin, App Manager, Developer, or Marketing role as beta testers. You
can also choose to automatically distribute new builds to [internal
testers](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/add-internal-testers), so
they’re always testing the latest updates.

### Invite external testers

You can also invite up to 10,000 external testers to join your beta program.
To [invite external testers](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-
version/invite-external-testers), you’ll first create a group in App Store
Connect, add the builds you’d like them to test, and have your first build
already approved by App Review for TestFlight. Your builds are automatically
sent for review once they’re added to a group.

Invite external testers using your choice of:

  * **Email.** Send people an invitation with a link to install your beta and start testing. This can be an effective way to enroll testers if you have a specific people and know their email addresses.
  * **Public links.** Include a [public link](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/invite-external-testers#invite-external-testers) in your marketing communications — such as email, social media, and more — to invite people to test your beta build. If you’re new to beta testing, public links can be a great way to establish a group of testers since you don’t need to have anyone’s contact information to invite them. To more easily enroll qualified testers and get more relevant feedback, you can set criteria, such as device type and OS version, for those who enroll via your public link.

To ensure a good user experience, be thoughtful about where you share your
public link and when it may be appropriate to remove it. For example, if
you’ve reached your tester limit, be sure to disable your link so people who
try and join your beta will know it’s no longer accepting new testers. You can
view how many testers viewed and installed your beta from a public link, as
well as how many people met any criteria you’ve selected in [App Store
Connect](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-
version/view-and-manage-tester-information#view-public-link-metrics).

![](/testflight/images/lockup-ipad-iphone-testflight_2x.png)

## Get feedback

Feedback is a key part of using TestFlight and helps you understand how to
improve your app experience. Testers can take a screenshot from your app or
game and easily share feedback. They can even mark up the image with relevant
feedback or suggestions. If they experience a crash, you’ll receive a crash
report and testers have the option of sharing additional context to help you
troubleshoot the issue.

You can [view feedback](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-
tester-feedback) in the TestFlight section of App Store Connect, including
screenshots, comments related to crashes, and any additional written feedback.
Filter feedback by platform or OS version to get additional insight about
potential improvements. You can find out how successful your public link is at
enrolling testers for your app as well as understand how many testers viewed
and accepted your invite. If you’ve chosen to set criteria for the public
link, you can also view how many testers didn’t meet the criteria.

## Submit and publish

When you’ve finished testing, be sure to incorporate any feedback before you
distribute your app, game, or App Clip. Any builds you’ve already added in
TestFlight will appear in App Store Connect. Simply select the build you wish
to publish and [submit it for review](/help/app-store-connect/manage-
submissions-to-app-review/submit-for-review).

