  * [ The Swift Programming Language (6.2) ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language)
  * Access Control 

# Access Control

Manage the visibility of code by declaration, file, and module.

_Access control_ restricts access to parts of your code from code in other
source files and modules. This feature enables you to hide the implementation
details of your code, and to specify a preferred interface through which that
code can be accessed and used.

You can assign specific access levels to individual types (classes,
structures, and enumerations), as well as to properties, methods,
initializers, and subscripts belonging to those types. Protocols can be
restricted to a certain context, as can global constants, variables, and
functions.

In addition to offering various levels of access control, Swift reduces the
need to specify explicit access control levels by providing default access
levels for typical scenarios. Indeed, if you are writing a single-target app,
you may not need to specify explicit access control levels at all.

Note

The various aspects of your code that can have access control applied to them
(properties, types, functions, and so on) are referred to as “entities” in the
sections below, for brevity.

## [Modules, Source Files, and Packages](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol/#Modules-Source-Files-and-Packages)

Swift’s access control model is based on the concept of modules, source files,
and packages.

A _module_ is a single unit of code distribution — a framework or application
that’s built and shipped as a single unit and that can be imported by another
module with Swift’s `import` keyword.

Each build target (such as an app bundle or framework) in Xcode is treated as
a separate module in Swift. If you group together aspects of your app’s code
as a stand-alone framework — perhaps to encapsulate and reuse that code across
multiple applications — then everything you define within that framework will
be part of a separate module when it’s imported and used within an app, or
when it’s used within another framework.

A _source file_ is a single Swift source code file within a module (in effect,
a single file within an app or framework). Although it’s common to define
individual types in separate source files, a single source file can contain
definitions for multiple types, functions, and so on.

A _package_ is a group of modules that you develop as a unit. You define the
modules that form a package as part of configuring the build system you’re
using, not as part of your Swift source code. For example, if you use Swift
Package Manager to build your code, you define a package in your
`Package.swift` file using APIs from the
[PackageDescription](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/packagedescription)
module, and if you use Xcode, you specify the package name in the Package
Access Identifier build setting.

## [Access Levels](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Access-Levels)

Swift provides six different _access levels_ for entities within your code.
These access levels are relative to the source file in which an entity is
defined, the module that source file belongs to, and the package that the
module belongs to.

  * _Open access_ and _public access_ enable entities to be used within any source file from their defining module, and also in a source file from another module that imports the defining module. You typically use open or public access when specifying the public interface to a framework. The difference between open and public access is described below.

  * _Package access_ enables entities to be used within any source files from their defining package but not in any source file outside of that package. You typically use package access within an app or framework that’s structured into multiple modules.

  * _Internal access_ enables entities to be used within any source file from their defining module, but not in any source file outside of that module. You typically use internal access when defining an app’s or a framework’s internal structure.

  * _File-private access_ restricts the use of an entity to its own defining source file. Use file-private access to hide the implementation details of a specific piece of functionality when those details are used within an entire file.

  * _Private access_ restricts the use of an entity to the enclosing declaration, and to extensions of that declaration that are in the same file. Use private access to hide the implementation details of a specific piece of functionality when those details are used only within a single declaration.

Open access is the highest (least restrictive) access level and private access
is the lowest (most restrictive) access level.

Open access applies only to classes and class members, and it differs from
public access by allowing code outside the module to subclass and override, as
discussed below in [Subclassing](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol#Subclassing). Marking a class as open
explicitly indicates that you’ve considered the impact of code from other
modules using that class as a superclass, and that you’ve designed your
class’s code accordingly.

### [Guiding Principle of Access Levels](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol/#Guiding-Principle-of-Access-Levels)

Access levels in Swift follow an overall guiding principle: _No entity can be
defined in terms of another entity that has a lower (more restrictive) access
level._

For example:

  * A public variable can’t be defined as having an internal, file-private, or private type, because the type might not be available everywhere that the public variable is used.

  * A function can’t have a higher access level than its parameter types and return type, because the function could be used in situations where its constituent types are unavailable to the surrounding code.

The specific implications of this guiding principle for different aspects of
the language are covered in detail below.

### [Default Access Levels](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Default-Access-Levels)

All entities in your code (with a few specific exceptions, as described later
in this chapter) have a default access level of internal if you don’t specify
an explicit access level yourself. As a result, in many cases you don’t need
to specify an explicit access level in your code.

### [Access Levels for Single-Target Apps](/swift-book/documentation/the-
swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Access-Levels-for-Single-Target-
Apps)

When you write a simple single-target app, the code in your app is typically
self-contained within the app and doesn’t need to be made available outside of
the app’s module. The default access level of internal already matches this
requirement. Therefore, you don’t need to specify a custom access level. You
may, however, want to mark some parts of your code as file private or private
in order to hide their implementation details from other code within the app’s
module.

### [Access Levels for Frameworks](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol/#Access-Levels-for-Frameworks)

When you develop a framework, mark the public-facing interface to that
framework as open or public so that it can be viewed and accessed by other
modules, such as an app that imports the framework. This public-facing
interface is the application programming interface (or API) for the framework.

Note

Any internal implementation details of your framework can still use the
default access level of internal, or can be marked as private or file private
if you want to hide them from other parts of the framework’s internal code.
You need to mark an entity as open or public only if you want it to become
part of your framework’s API.

### [Access Levels for Unit Test Targets](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol/#Access-Levels-for-Unit-Test-Targets)

When you write an app with a unit test target, the code in your app needs to
be made available to that module in order to be tested. By default, only
entities marked as open or public are accessible to other modules. However, a
unit test target can access any internal entity, if you mark the import
declaration for a product module with the `@testable` attribute and compile
that product module with testing enabled.

## [Access Control Syntax](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Access-Control-Syntax)

Define the access level for an entity by placing one of the modifiers listed
in [Access Levels](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol#Access-Levels), such as `public` or `private`, at the
beginning of the entity’s declaration. For example:

    
    
    public class SomePublicClass {}
    internal struct SomeInternalStruct() {}
    private func somePrivateFunction() {}
    

The code above declares `SomePublicClass` as public, `SomeInternalStruct` as
internal, and `somePrivateFunction()` as private. If you don’t write an
explicit access level, the default access level modifier is `internal`, as
described in [Default Access Levels](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol#Default-Access-Levels). For example, in the
code below, `SomeInternalStruct` is implicitly internal:

    
    
    struct SomeInternalStruct() {}
    

## [Custom Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Custom-Types)

If you want to specify an explicit access level for a custom type, do so at
the point that you define the type. The new type can then be used wherever its
access level permits. For example, if you define a file-private class, that
class can only be used as the type of a property, or as a function parameter
or return type, in the source file in which the file-private class is defined.

The access control level of a type also affects the default access level of
that type’s _members_ (its properties, methods, initializers, and subscripts).
If you define a type’s access level as private or file private, the default
access level of its members will also be private or file private. If you
define a type’s access level as internal or public (or use the default access
level of internal without specifying an access level explicitly), the default
access level of the type’s members will be internal.

Important

A public type defaults to having internal members, not public members. If you
want a type member to be public, you must explicitly mark it as such. This
requirement ensures that the public-facing API for a type is something you opt
in to publishing, and avoids presenting the internal workings of a type as
public API by mistake.

    
    
    public class SomePublicClass {                   // explicitly public class
        public var somePublicProperty = 0            // explicitly public class member
        var someInternalProperty = 0                 // implicitly internal class member
        fileprivate func someFilePrivateMethod() {}  // explicitly file-private class member
        private func somePrivateMethod() {}          // explicitly private class member
    }
    
    
    class SomeInternalClass {                        // implicitly internal class
        var someInternalProperty = 0                 // implicitly internal class member
        fileprivate func someFilePrivateMethod() {}  // explicitly file-private class member
        private func somePrivateMethod() {}          // explicitly private class member
    }
    
    
    fileprivate class SomeFilePrivateClass {         // explicitly file-private class
        func someFilePrivateMethod() {}              // implicitly file-private class member
        private func somePrivateMethod() {}          // explicitly private class member
    }
    
    
    private class SomePrivateClass {                 // explicitly private class
        func somePrivateMethod() {}                  // implicitly private class member
    }
    

### [Tuple Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Tuple-Types)

The access level for a tuple type is the most restrictive access level of all
types used in that tuple. For example, if you compose a tuple from two
different types, one with internal access and one with private access, the
access level for that compound tuple type will be private.

Note

Tuple types don’t have a standalone definition in the way that classes,
structures, enumerations, and functions do. A tuple type’s access level is
determined automatically from the types that make up the tuple type, and can’t
be specified explicitly.

### [Function Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Function-Types)

The access level for a function type is calculated as the most restrictive
access level of the function’s parameter types and return type. You must
specify the access level explicitly as part of the function’s definition if
the function’s calculated access level doesn’t match the contextual default.

The example below defines a global function called `someFunction()`, without
providing a specific access-level modifier for the function itself. You might
expect this function to have the default access level of “internal”, but this
isn’t the case. In fact, `someFunction()` won’t compile as written below:

    
    
    func someFunction() -> (SomeInternalClass, SomePrivateClass) {
        // function implementation goes here
    }
    

The function’s return type is a tuple type composed from two of the custom
classes defined above in [Custom Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol#Custom-Types). One of these classes is
defined as internal, and the other is defined as private. Therefore, the
overall access level of the compound tuple type is private (the minimum access
level of the tuple’s constituent types).

Because the function’s return type is private, you must mark the function’s
overall access level with the `private` modifier for the function declaration
to be valid:

    
    
    private func someFunction() -> (SomeInternalClass, SomePrivateClass) {
        // function implementation goes here
    }
    

It’s not valid to mark the definition of `someFunction()` with the `public` or
`internal` modifiers, or to use the default setting of internal, because
public or internal users of the function might not have appropriate access to
the private class used in the function’s return type.

### [Enumeration Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Enumeration-Types)

The individual cases of an enumeration automatically receive the same access
level as the enumeration they belong to. You can’t specify a different access
level for individual enumeration cases.

In the example below, the `CompassPoint` enumeration has an explicit access
level of public. The enumeration cases `north`, `south`, `east`, and `west`
therefore also have an access level of public:

    
    
    public enum CompassPoint {
        case north
        case south
        case east
        case west
    }
    

#### [Raw Values and Associated Values](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol/#Raw-Values-and-Associated-Values)

The types used for any raw values or associated values in an enumeration
definition must have an access level at least as high as the enumeration’s
access level. For example, you can’t use a private type as the raw-value type
of an enumeration with an internal access level.

### [Nested Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Nested-Types)

The access level of a nested type is the same as its containing type, unless
the containing type is public. Nested types defined within a public type have
an automatic access level of internal. If you want a nested type within a
public type to be publicly available, you must explicitly declare the nested
type as public.

## [Subclassing](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Subclassing)

You can subclass any class that can be accessed in the current access context
and that’s defined in the same module as the subclass. You can also subclass
any open class that’s defined in a different module. A subclass can’t have a
higher access level than its superclass — for example, you can’t write a
public subclass of an internal superclass.

In addition, for classes that are defined in the same module, you can override
any class member (method, property, initializer, or subscript) that’s visible
in a certain access context. For classes that are defined in another module,
you can override any open class member.

An override can make an inherited class member more accessible than its
superclass version. In the example below, class `A` is a public class with a
file-private method called `someMethod()`. Class `B` is a subclass of `A`,
with a reduced access level of “internal”. Nonetheless, class `B` provides an
override of `someMethod()` with an access level of “internal”, which is
_higher_ than the original implementation of `someMethod()`:

    
    
    public class A {
        fileprivate func someMethod() {}
    }
    
    
    internal class B: A {
        override internal func someMethod() {}
    }
    

It’s even valid for a subclass member to call a superclass member that has
lower access permissions than the subclass member, as long as the call to the
superclass’s member takes place within an allowed access level context (that
is, within the same source file as the superclass for a file-private member
call, or within the same module as the superclass for an internal member
call):

    
    
    public class A {
        fileprivate func someMethod() {}
    }
    
    
    internal class B: A {
        override internal func someMethod() {
            super.someMethod()
        }
    }
    

Because superclass `A` and subclass `B` are defined in the same source file,
it’s valid for the `B` implementation of `someMethod()` to call
`super.someMethod()`.

## [Constants, Variables, Properties, and Subscripts](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Constants-
Variables-Properties-and-Subscripts)

A constant, variable, or property can’t be more public than its type. It’s not
valid to write a public property with a private type, for example. Similarly,
a subscript can’t be more public than either its index type or return type.

If a constant, variable, property, or subscript makes use of a private type,
the constant, variable, property, or subscript must also be marked as
`private`:

    
    
    private var privateInstance = SomePrivateClass()
    

### [Getters and Setters](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Getters-and-Setters)

Getters and setters for constants, variables, properties, and subscripts
automatically receive the same access level as the constant, variable,
property, or subscript they belong to.

You can give a setter a _lower_ access level than its corresponding getter, to
restrict the read-write scope of that variable, property, or subscript. You
assign a lower access level by writing `fileprivate(set)`, `private(set)`,
`internal(set)`, or `package(set)` before the `var` or `subscript` introducer.

Note

This rule applies to stored properties as well as computed properties. Even
though you don’t write an explicit getter and setter for a stored property,
Swift still synthesizes an implicit getter and setter for you to provide
access to the stored property’s backing storage. Use `fileprivate(set)`,
`private(set)`, `internal(set)`, and `package(set)` to change the access level
of this synthesized setter in exactly the same way as for an explicit setter
in a computed property.

The example below defines a structure called `TrackedString`, which keeps
track of the number of times a string property is modified:

    
    
    struct TrackedString {
        private(set) var numberOfEdits = 0
        var value: String = "" {
            didSet {
                numberOfEdits += 1
            }
        }
    }
    

The `TrackedString` structure defines a stored string property called `value`,
with an initial value of `""` (an empty string). The structure also defines a
stored integer property called `numberOfEdits`, which is used to track the
number of times that `value` is modified. This modification tracking is
implemented with a `didSet` property observer on the `value` property, which
increments `numberOfEdits` every time the `value` property is set to a new
value.

The `TrackedString` structure and the `value` property don’t provide an
explicit access-level modifier, and so they both receive the default access
level of internal. However, the access level for the `numberOfEdits` property
is marked with a `private(set)` modifier to indicate that the property’s
getter still has the default access level of internal, but the property is
settable only from within code that’s part of the `TrackedString` structure.
This enables `TrackedString` to modify the `numberOfEdits` property
internally, but to present the property as a read-only property when it’s used
outside the structure’s definition.

If you create a `TrackedString` instance and modify its string value a few
times, you can see the `numberOfEdits` property value update to match the
number of modifications:

    
    
    var stringToEdit = TrackedString()
    stringToEdit.value = "This string will be tracked."
    stringToEdit.value += " This edit will increment numberOfEdits."
    stringToEdit.value += " So will this one."
    print("The number of edits is \(stringToEdit.numberOfEdits)")
    // Prints "The number of edits is 3"
    

Although you can query the current value of the `numberOfEdits` property from
within another source file, you can’t _modify_ the property from another
source file. This restriction protects the implementation details of the
`TrackedString` edit-tracking functionality, while still providing convenient
access to an aspect of that functionality.

Note that you can assign an explicit access level for both a getter and a
setter if required. The example below shows a version of the `TrackedString`
structure in which the structure is defined with an explicit access level of
public. The structure’s members (including the `numberOfEdits` property)
therefore have an internal access level by default. You can make the
structure’s `numberOfEdits` property getter public, and its property setter
private, by combining the `public` and `private(set)` access-level modifiers:

    
    
    public struct TrackedString {
        public private(set) var numberOfEdits = 0
        public var value: String = "" {
            didSet {
                numberOfEdits += 1
            }
        }
        public init() {}
    }
    

## [Initializers](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Initializers)

Custom initializers can be assigned an access level less than or equal to the
type that they initialize. The only exception is for required initializers (as
defined in [Required Initializers](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/initialization#Required-Initializers)). A required
initializer must have the same access level as the class it belongs to.

As with function and method parameters, the types of an initializer’s
parameters can’t be more private than the initializer’s own access level.

### [Default Initializers](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Default-Initializers)

As described in [Default Initializers](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/initialization#Default-Initializers), Swift automatically
provides a _default initializer_ without any arguments for any structure or
base class that provides default values for all of its properties and doesn’t
provide at least one initializer itself.

A default initializer has the same access level as the type it initializes,
unless that type is defined as `public`. For a type that’s defined as
`public`, the default initializer is considered internal. If you want a public
type to be initializable with a no-argument initializer when used in another
module, you must explicitly provide a public no-argument initializer yourself
as part of the type’s definition.

### [Default Memberwise Initializers for Structure Types](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Default-
Memberwise-Initializers-for-Structure-Types)

The default memberwise initializer for a structure type is considered private
if any of the structure’s stored properties are private. Likewise, if any of
the structure’s stored properties are file private, the initializer is file
private. Otherwise, the initializer has an access level of internal.

As with the default initializer above, if you want a public structure type to
be initializable with a memberwise initializer when used in another module,
you must provide a public memberwise initializer yourself as part of the
type’s definition.

## [Protocols](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Protocols)

If you want to assign an explicit access level to a protocol type, do so at
the point that you define the protocol. This enables you to create protocols
that can only be adopted within a certain access context.

The access level of each requirement within a protocol definition is
automatically set to the same access level as the protocol. You can’t set a
protocol requirement to a different access level than the protocol it
supports. This ensures that all of the protocol’s requirements will be visible
on any type that adopts the protocol.

Note

If you define a public protocol, the protocol’s requirements require a public
access level for those requirements when they’re implemented. This behavior is
different from other types, where a public type definition implies an access
level of internal for the type’s members.

### [Protocol Inheritance](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Protocol-Inheritance)

If you define a new protocol that inherits from an existing protocol, the new
protocol can have at most the same access level as the protocol it inherits
from. For example, you can’t write a public protocol that inherits from an
internal protocol.

### [Protocol Conformance](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Protocol-Conformance)

A type can conform to a protocol with a lower access level than the type
itself. For example, you can define a public type that can be used in other
modules, but whose conformance to an internal protocol can only be used within
the internal protocol’s defining module.

The context in which a type conforms to a particular protocol is the minimum
of the type’s access level and the protocol’s access level. For example, if a
type is public, but a protocol it conforms to is internal, the type’s
conformance to that protocol is also internal.

When you write or extend a type to conform to a protocol, you must ensure that
the type’s implementation of each protocol requirement has at least the same
access level as the type’s conformance to that protocol. For example, if a
public type conforms to an internal protocol, the type’s implementation of
each protocol requirement must be at least internal.

Note

In Swift, as in Objective-C, protocol conformance is global — it isn’t
possible for a type to conform to a protocol in two different ways within the
same program.

## [Extensions](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Extensions)

You can extend a class, structure, or enumeration in any access context in
which the class, structure, or enumeration is available. Any type members
added in an extension have the same default access level as type members
declared in the original type being extended. If you extend a public or
internal type, any new type members you add have a default access level of
internal. If you extend a file-private type, any new type members you add have
a default access level of file private. If you extend a private type, any new
type members you add have a default access level of private.

Alternatively, you can mark an extension with an explicit access-level
modifier (for example, `private`) to set a new default access level for all
members defined within the extension. This new default can still be overridden
within the extension for individual type members.

You can’t provide an explicit access-level modifier for an extension if you’re
using that extension to add protocol conformance. Instead, the protocol’s own
access level is used to provide the default access level for each protocol
requirement implementation within the extension.

### [Private Members in Extensions](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/accesscontrol/#Private-Members-in-Extensions)

Extensions that are in the same file as the class, structure, or enumeration
that they extend behave as if the code in the extension had been written as
part of the original type’s declaration. As a result, you can:

  * Declare a private member in the original declaration, and access that member from extensions in the same file.

  * Declare a private member in one extension, and access that member from another extension in the same file.

  * Declare a private member in an extension, and access that member from the original declaration in the same file.

This behavior means you can use extensions in the same way to organize your
code, whether or not your types have private entities. For example, given the
following simple protocol:

    
    
    protocol SomeProtocol {
        func doSomething()
    }
    

You can use an extension to add protocol conformance, like this:

    
    
    struct SomeStruct {
        private var privateVariable = 12
    }
    
    
    extension SomeStruct: SomeProtocol {
        func doSomething() {
            print(privateVariable)
        }
    }
    

## [Generics](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Generics)

The access level for a generic type or generic function is the minimum of the
access level of the generic type or function itself and the access level of
any type constraints on its type parameters.

## [Type Aliases](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/accesscontrol/#Type-Aliases)

Any type aliases you define are treated as distinct types for the purposes of
access control. A type alias can have an access level less than or equal to
the access level of the type it aliases. For example, a private type alias can
alias a private, file-private, internal, public, or open type, but a public
type alias can’t alias an internal, file-private, or private type.

Note

This rule also applies to type aliases for associated types used to satisfy
protocol conformances.

  * [ Access Control ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#app-top)
  * [ Modules, Source Files, and Packages ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Modules-Source-Files-and-Packages)
  * [ Access Levels ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Access-Levels)
  * [ Guiding Principle of Access Levels ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Guiding-Principle-of-Access-Levels)
  * [ Default Access Levels ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Default-Access-Levels)
  * [ Access Levels for Single-Target Apps ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Access-Levels-for-Single-Target-Apps)
  * [ Access Levels for Frameworks ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Access-Levels-for-Frameworks)
  * [ Access Levels for Unit Test Targets ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Access-Levels-for-Unit-Test-Targets)
  * [ Access Control Syntax ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Access-Control-Syntax)
  * [ Custom Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Custom-Types)
  * [ Tuple Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Tuple-Types)
  * [ Function Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Function-Types)
  * [ Enumeration Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Enumeration-Types)
  * [ Nested Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Nested-Types)
  * [ Subclassing ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Subclassing)
  * [ Constants, Variables, Properties, and Subscripts ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Constants-Variables-Properties-and-Subscripts)
  * [ Getters and Setters ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Getters-and-Setters)
  * [ Initializers ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Initializers)
  * [ Default Initializers ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Default-Initializers)
  * [ Default Memberwise Initializers for Structure Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Default-Memberwise-Initializers-for-Structure-Types)
  * [ Protocols ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Protocols)
  * [ Protocol Inheritance ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Protocol-Inheritance)
  * [ Protocol Conformance ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Protocol-Conformance)
  * [ Extensions ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Extensions)
  * [ Private Members in Extensions ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Private-Members-in-Extensions)
  * [ Generics ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Generics)
  * [ Type Aliases ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/accesscontrol/#Type-Aliases)

