  * [ The Swift Programming Language (6.2) ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language)
  * Closures 

# Closures

Group code that executes together, without creating a named function.

_Closures_ are self-contained blocks of functionality that can be passed
around and used in your code. Closures in Swift are similar to closures,
anonymous functions, lambdas, and blocks in other programming languages.

Closures can capture and store references to any constants and variables from
the context in which they’re defined. This is known as _closing over_ those
constants and variables. Swift handles all of the memory management of
capturing for you.

Note

Don’t worry if you aren’t familiar with the concept of capturing. It’s
explained in detail below in [Capturing Values](/swift-book/documentation/the-
swift-programming-language/closures#Capturing-Values).

Global and nested functions, as introduced in [Functions](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/functions), are actually
special cases of closures. Closures take one of three forms:

  * Global functions are closures that have a name and don’t capture any values.

  * Nested functions are closures that have a name and can capture values from their enclosing function.

  * Closure expressions are unnamed closures written in a lightweight syntax that can capture values from their surrounding context.

Swift’s closure expressions have a clean, clear style, with optimizations that
encourage brief, clutter-free syntax in common scenarios. These optimizations
include:

  * Inferring parameter and return value types from context

  * Implicit returns from single-expression closures

  * Shorthand argument names

  * Trailing closure syntax

## [Closure Expressions](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/closures/#Closure-Expressions)

Nested functions, as introduced in [Nested Functions](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/functions#Nested-Functions),
are a convenient means of naming and defining self-contained blocks of code as
part of a larger function. However, it’s sometimes useful to write shorter
versions of function-like constructs without a full declaration and name. This
is particularly true when you work with functions or methods that take
functions as one or more of their arguments.

_Closure expressions_ are a way to write inline closures in a brief, focused
syntax. Closure expressions provide several syntax optimizations for writing
closures in a shortened form without loss of clarity or intent. The closure
expression examples below illustrate these optimizations by refining a single
example of the `sorted(by:)` method over several iterations, each of which
expresses the same functionality in a more succinct way.

### [The Sorted Method](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/closures/#The-Sorted-Method)

Swift’s standard library provides a method called `sorted(by:)`, which sorts
an array of values of a known type, based on the output of a sorting closure
that you provide. Once it completes the sorting process, the `sorted(by:)`
method returns a new array of the same type and size as the old one, with its
elements in the correct sorted order. The original array isn’t modified by the
`sorted(by:)` method.

The closure expression examples below use the `sorted(by:)` method to sort an
array of `String` values in reverse alphabetical order. Here’s the initial
array to be sorted:

    
    
    let names = ["Chris", "Alex", "Ewa", "Barry", "Daniella"]
    

The `sorted(by:)` method accepts a closure that takes two arguments of the
same type as the array’s contents, and returns a `Bool` value to say whether
the first value should appear before or after the second value once the values
are sorted. The sorting closure needs to return `true` if the first value
should appear _before_ the second value, and `false` otherwise.

This example is sorting an array of `String` values, and so the sorting
closure needs to be a function of type `(String, String) -> Bool`.

One way to provide the sorting closure is to write a normal function of the
correct type, and to pass it in as an argument to the `sorted(by:)` method:

    
    
    func backward(_ s1: String, _ s2: String) -> Bool {
        return s1 > s2
    }
    var reversedNames = names.sorted(by: backward)
    // reversedNames is equal to ["Ewa", "Daniella", "Chris", "Barry", "Alex"]
    

If the first string (`s1`) is greater than the second string (`s2`), the
`backward(_:_:)` function will return `true`, indicating that `s1` should
appear before `s2` in the sorted array. For characters in strings, “greater
than” means “appears later in the alphabet than”. This means that the letter
`"B"` is “greater than” the letter `"A"`, and the string `"Tom"` is greater
than the string `"Tim"`. This gives a reverse alphabetical sort, with
`"Barry"` being placed before `"Alex"`, and so on.

However, this is a rather long-winded way to write what is essentially a
single-expression function (`a > b`). In this example, it would be preferable
to write the sorting closure inline, using closure expression syntax.

### [Closure Expression Syntax](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/closures/#Closure-Expression-Syntax)

Closure expression syntax has the following general form:

    
    
    { (<#parameters#>) -> <#return type#> in
       <#statements#>
    }
    

The _parameters_ in closure expression syntax can be in-out parameters, but
they can’t have a default value. Variadic parameters can be used if you name
the variadic parameter. Tuples can also be used as parameter types and return
types.

The example below shows a closure expression version of the `backward(_:_:)`
function from above:

    
    
    reversedNames = names.sorted(by: { (s1: String, s2: String) -> Bool in
        return s1 > s2
    })
    

Note that the declaration of parameters and return type for this inline
closure is identical to the declaration from the `backward(_:_:)` function. In
both cases, it’s written as `(s1: String, s2: String) -> Bool`. However, for
the inline closure expression, the parameters and return type are written
_inside_ the curly braces, not outside of them.

The start of the closure’s body is introduced by the `in` keyword. This
keyword indicates that the definition of the closure’s parameters and return
type has finished, and the body of the closure is about to begin.

Because the body of the closure is so short, it can even be written on a
single line:

    
    
    reversedNames = names.sorted(by: { (s1: String, s2: String) -> Bool in return s1 > s2 } )
    

This illustrates that the overall call to the `sorted(by:)` method has
remained the same. A pair of parentheses still wrap the entire argument for
the method. However, that argument is now an inline closure.

### [Inferring Type From Context](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/closures/#Inferring-Type-From-Context)

Because the sorting closure is passed as an argument to a method, Swift can
infer the types of its parameters and the type of the value it returns. The
`sorted(by:)` method is being called on an array of strings, so its argument
must be a function of type `(String, String) -> Bool`. This means that the
`(String, String)` and `Bool` types don’t need to be written as part of the
closure expression’s definition. Because all of the types can be inferred, the
return arrow (`->`) and the parentheses around the names of the parameters can
also be omitted:

    
    
    reversedNames = names.sorted(by: { s1, s2 in return s1 > s2 } )
    

It’s always possible to infer the parameter types and return type when passing
a closure to a function or method as an inline closure expression. As a
result, you never need to write an inline closure in its fullest form when the
closure is used as a function or method argument.

Nonetheless, you can still make the types explicit if you wish, and doing so
is encouraged if it avoids ambiguity for readers of your code. In the case of
the `sorted(by:)` method, the purpose of the closure is clear from the fact
that sorting is taking place, and it’s safe for a reader to assume that the
closure is likely to be working with `String` values, because it’s assisting
with the sorting of an array of strings.

### [Implicit Returns from Single-Expression Closures](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Implicit-Returns-
from-Single-Expression-Closures)

Single-expression closures can implicitly return the result of their single
expression by omitting the `return` keyword from their declaration, as in this
version of the previous example:

    
    
    reversedNames = names.sorted(by: { s1, s2 in s1 > s2 } )
    

Here, the function type of the `sorted(by:)` method’s argument makes it clear
that a `Bool` value must be returned by the closure. Because the closure’s
body contains a single expression (`s1 > s2`) that returns a `Bool` value,
there’s no ambiguity, and the `return` keyword can be omitted.

### [Shorthand Argument Names](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/closures/#Shorthand-Argument-Names)

Swift automatically provides shorthand argument names to inline closures,
which can be used to refer to the values of the closure’s arguments by the
names `$0`, `$1`, `$2`, and so on.

If you use these shorthand argument names within your closure expression, you
can omit the closure’s argument list from its definition. The type of the
shorthand argument names is inferred from the expected function type, and the
highest numbered shorthand argument you use determines the number of arguments
that the closure takes. The `in` keyword can also be omitted, because the
closure expression is made up entirely of its body:

    
    
    reversedNames = names.sorted(by: { $0 > $1 } )
    

Here, `$0` and `$1` refer to the closure’s first and second `String`
arguments. Because `$1` is the shorthand argument with highest number, the
closure is understood to take two arguments. Because the `sorted(by:)`
function here expects a closure whose arguments are both strings, the
shorthand arguments `$0` and `$1` are both of type `String`.

### [Operator Methods](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/closures/#Operator-Methods)

There’s actually an even _shorter_ way to write the closure expression above.
Swift’s `String` type defines its string-specific implementation of the
greater-than operator (`>`) as a method that has two parameters of type
`String`, and returns a value of type `Bool`. This exactly matches the method
type needed by the `sorted(by:)` method. Therefore, you can simply pass in the
greater-than operator, and Swift will infer that you want to use its string-
specific implementation:

    
    
    reversedNames = names.sorted(by: >)
    

For more about operator methods, see [Operator Methods](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/advancedoperators#Operator-
Methods).

## [Trailing Closures](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/closures/#Trailing-Closures)

If you need to pass a closure expression to a function as the function’s final
argument and the closure expression is long, it can be useful to write it as a
_trailing closure_ instead. You write a trailing closure after the function
call’s parentheses, even though the trailing closure is still an argument to
the function. When you use the trailing closure syntax, you don’t write the
argument label for the first closure as part of the function call. A function
call can include multiple trailing closures; however, the first few examples
below use a single trailing closure.

    
    
    func someFunctionThatTakesAClosure(closure: () -> Void) {
        // function body goes here
    }
    
    
    // Here's how you call this function without using a trailing closure:
    
    
    someFunctionThatTakesAClosure(closure: {
        // closure's body goes here
    })
    
    
    // Here's how you call this function with a trailing closure instead:
    
    
    someFunctionThatTakesAClosure() {
        // trailing closure's body goes here
    }
    

The string-sorting closure from the [Closure Expression Syntax](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures#Closure-Expression-
Syntax) section above can be written outside of the `sorted(by:)` method’s
parentheses as a trailing closure:

    
    
    reversedNames = names.sorted() { $0 > $1 }
    

If a closure expression is provided as the function’s or method’s only
argument and you provide that expression as a trailing closure, you don’t need
to write a pair of parentheses `()` after the function or method’s name when
you call the function:

    
    
    reversedNames = names.sorted { $0 > $1 }
    

Trailing closures are most useful when the closure is sufficiently long that
it isn’t possible to write it inline on a single line. As an example, Swift’s
`Array` type has a `map(_:)` method, which takes a closure expression as its
single argument. The closure is called once for each item in the array, and
returns an alternative mapped value (possibly of some other type) for that
item. You specify the nature of the mapping and the type of the returned value
by writing code in the closure that you pass to `map(_:)`.

After applying the provided closure to each array element, the `map(_:)`
method returns a new array containing all of the new mapped values, in the
same order as their corresponding values in the original array.

Here’s how you can use the `map(_:)` method with a trailing closure to convert
an array of `Int` values into an array of `String` values. The array `[16, 58,
510]` is used to create the new array `["OneSix", "FiveEight",
"FiveOneZero"]`:

    
    
    let digitNames = [
        0: "Zero", 1: "One", 2: "Two",   3: "Three", 4: "Four",
        5: "Five", 6: "Six", 7: "Seven", 8: "Eight", 9: "Nine"
    ]
    let numbers = [16, 58, 510]
    

The code above creates a dictionary of mappings between the integer digits and
English-language versions of their names. It also defines an array of
integers, ready to be converted into strings.

You can now use the `numbers` array to create an array of `String` values, by
passing a closure expression to the array’s `map(_:)` method as a trailing
closure:

    
    
    let strings = numbers.map { (number) -> String in
        var number = number
        var output = ""
        repeat {
            output = digitNames[number % 10]! + output
            number /= 10
        } while number > 0
        return output
    }
    // strings is inferred to be of type [String]
    // its value is ["OneSix", "FiveEight", "FiveOneZero"]
    

The `map(_:)` method calls the closure expression once for each item in the
array. You don’t need to specify the type of the closure’s input parameter,
`number`, because the type can be inferred from the values in the array to be
mapped.

In this example, the variable `number` is initialized with the value of the
closure’s `number` parameter, so that the value can be modified within the
closure body. (The parameters to functions and closures are always constants.)
The closure expression also specifies a return type of `String`, to indicate
the type that will be stored in the mapped output array.

The closure expression builds a string called `output` each time it’s called.
It calculates the last digit of `number` by using the remainder operator
(`number % 10`), and uses this digit to look up an appropriate string in the
`digitNames` dictionary. The closure can be used to create a string
representation of any integer greater than zero.

Note

The call to the `digitNames` dictionary’s subscript is followed by an
exclamation point (`!`), because dictionary subscripts return an optional
value to indicate that the dictionary lookup can fail if the key doesn’t
exist. In the example above, it’s guaranteed that `number % 10` will always be
a valid subscript key for the `digitNames` dictionary, and so an exclamation
point is used to force-unwrap the `String` value stored in the subscript’s
optional return value.

The string retrieved from the `digitNames` dictionary is added to the _front_
of `output`, effectively building a string version of the number in reverse.
(The expression `number % 10` gives a value of `6` for `16`, `8` for `58`, and
`0` for `510`.)

The `number` variable is then divided by `10`. Because it’s an integer, it’s
rounded down during the division, so `16` becomes `1`, `58` becomes `5`, and
`510` becomes `51`.

The process is repeated until `number` is equal to `0`, at which point the
`output` string is returned by the closure, and is added to the output array
by the `map(_:)` method.

The use of trailing closure syntax in the example above neatly encapsulates
the closure’s functionality immediately after the function that closure
supports, without needing to wrap the entire closure within the `map(_:)`
method’s outer parentheses.

If a function takes multiple closures, you omit the argument label for the
first trailing closure and you label the remaining trailing closures. For
example, the function below loads a picture for a photo gallery:

    
    
    func loadPicture(from server: Server, completion: (Picture) -> Void, onFailure: () -> Void) {
        if let picture = download("photo.jpg", from: server) {
            completion(picture)
        } else {
            onFailure()
        }
    }
    

When you call this function to load a picture, you provide two closures. The
first closure is a completion handler that displays a picture after a
successful download. The second closure is an error handler that displays an
error to the user.

    
    
    loadPicture(from: someServer) { picture in
        someView.currentPicture = picture
    } onFailure: {
        print("Couldn't download the next picture.")
    }
    

In this example, the `loadPicture(from:completion:onFailure:)` function
dispatches its network task into the background, and calls one of the two
completion handlers when the network task finishes. Writing the function this
way lets you cleanly separate the code that’s responsible for handling a
network failure from the code that updates the user interface after a
successful download, instead of using just one closure that handles both
circumstances.

Note

Completion handlers can become hard to read, especially when you have to nest
multiple handlers. An alternate approach is to use asynchronous code, as
described in [Concurrency](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/concurrency).

## [Capturing Values](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/closures/#Capturing-Values)

A closure can _capture_ constants and variables from the surrounding context
in which it’s defined. The closure can then refer to and modify the values of
those constants and variables from within its body, even if the original scope
that defined the constants and variables no longer exists.

In Swift, the simplest form of a closure that can capture values is a nested
function, written within the body of another function. A nested function can
capture any of its outer function’s arguments and can also capture any
constants and variables defined within the outer function.

Here’s an example of a function called `makeIncrementer`, which contains a
nested function called `incrementer`. The nested `incrementer()` function
captures two values, `runningTotal` and `amount`, from its surrounding
context. After capturing these values, `incrementer` is returned by
`makeIncrementer` as a closure that increments `runningTotal` by `amount` each
time it’s called.

    
    
    func makeIncrementer(forIncrement amount: Int) -> () -> Int {
        var runningTotal = 0
        func incrementer() -> Int {
            runningTotal += amount
            return runningTotal
        }
        return incrementer
    }
    

The return type of `makeIncrementer` is `() -> Int`. This means that it
returns a _function_ , rather than a simple value. The function it returns has
no parameters, and returns an `Int` value each time it’s called. To learn how
functions can return other functions, see [Function Types as Return
Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/functions#Function-Types-as-Return-Types).

The `makeIncrementer(forIncrement:)` function defines an integer variable
called `runningTotal`, to store the current running total of the incrementer
that will be returned. This variable is initialized with a value of `0`.

The `makeIncrementer(forIncrement:)` function has a single `Int` parameter
with an argument label of `forIncrement`, and a parameter name of `amount`.
The argument value passed to this parameter specifies how much `runningTotal`
should be incremented by each time the returned incrementer function is
called. The `makeIncrementer` function defines a nested function called
`incrementer`, which performs the actual incrementing. This function simply
adds `amount` to `runningTotal`, and returns the result.

When considered in isolation, the nested `incrementer()` function might seem
unusual:

    
    
    func incrementer() -> Int {
        runningTotal += amount
        return runningTotal
    }
    

The `incrementer()` function doesn’t have any parameters, and yet it refers to
`runningTotal` and `amount` from within its function body. It does this by
capturing a _reference_ to `runningTotal` and `amount` from the surrounding
function and using them within its own function body. Capturing by reference
ensures that `runningTotal` and `amount` don’t disappear when the call to
`makeIncrementer` ends, and also ensures that `runningTotal` is available the
next time the `incrementer` function is called.

Note

As an optimization, Swift may instead capture and store a _copy_ of a value if
that value isn’t mutated by a closure, and if the value isn’t mutated after
the closure is created.

Swift also handles all memory management involved in disposing of variables
when they’re no longer needed.

Here’s an example of `makeIncrementer` in action:

    
    
    let incrementByTen = makeIncrementer(forIncrement: 10)
    

This example sets a constant called `incrementByTen` to refer to an
incrementer function that adds `10` to its `runningTotal` variable each time
it’s called. Calling the function multiple times shows this behavior in
action:

    
    
    incrementByTen()
    // returns a value of 10
    incrementByTen()
    // returns a value of 20
    incrementByTen()
    // returns a value of 30
    

If you create a second incrementer, it will have its own stored reference to a
new, separate `runningTotal` variable:

    
    
    let incrementBySeven = makeIncrementer(forIncrement: 7)
    incrementBySeven()
    // returns a value of 7
    

Calling the original incrementer (`incrementByTen`) again continues to
increment its own `runningTotal` variable, and doesn’t affect the variable
captured by `incrementBySeven`:

    
    
    incrementByTen()
    // returns a value of 40
    

Note

If you assign a closure to a property of a class instance, and the closure
captures that instance by referring to the instance or its members, you will
create a strong reference cycle between the closure and the instance. Swift
uses _capture lists_ to break these strong reference cycles. For more
information, see [Strong Reference Cycles for Closures](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/automaticreferencecounting#Strong-Reference-Cycles-for-Closures).

## [Closures Are Reference Types](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/closures/#Closures-Are-Reference-Types)

In the example above, `incrementBySeven` and `incrementByTen` are constants,
but the closures these constants refer to are still able to increment the
`runningTotal` variables that they have captured. This is because functions
and closures are _reference types_.

Whenever you assign a function or a closure to a constant or a variable, you
are actually setting that constant or variable to be a _reference_ to the
function or closure. In the example above, it’s the choice of closure that
`incrementByTen` _refers to_ that’s constant, and not the contents of the
closure itself.

This also means that if you assign a closure to two different constants or
variables, both of those constants or variables refer to the same closure.

    
    
    let alsoIncrementByTen = incrementByTen
    alsoIncrementByTen()
    // returns a value of 50
    
    
    incrementByTen()
    // returns a value of 60
    

The example above shows that calling `alsoIncrementByTen` is the same as
calling `incrementByTen`. Because both of them refer to the same closure, they
both increment and return the same running total.

## [Escaping Closures](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/closures/#Escaping-Closures)

A closure is said to _escape_ a function when the closure is passed as an
argument to the function, but is called after the function returns. When you
declare a function that takes a closure as one of its parameters, you can
write `@escaping` before the parameter’s type to indicate that the closure is
allowed to escape.

One way that a closure can escape is by being stored in a variable that’s
defined outside the function. As an example, many functions that start an
asynchronous operation take a closure argument as a completion handler. The
function returns after it starts the operation, but the closure isn’t called
until the operation is completed — the closure needs to escape, to be called
later. For example:

    
    
    var completionHandlers: [() -> Void] = []
    func someFunctionWithEscapingClosure(completionHandler: @escaping () -> Void) {
        completionHandlers.append(completionHandler)
    }
    

The `someFunctionWithEscapingClosure(_:)` function takes a closure as its
argument and adds it to an array that’s declared outside the function. If you
didn’t mark the parameter of this function with `@escaping`, you would get a
compile-time error.

An escaping closure that refers to `self` needs special consideration if
`self` refers to an instance of a class. Capturing `self` in an escaping
closure makes it easy to accidentally create a strong reference cycle. For
information about reference cycles, see [Automatic Reference Counting](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/automaticreferencecounting).

Normally, a closure captures variables implicitly by using them in the body of
the closure, but in this case you need to be explicit. If you want to capture
`self`, write `self` explicitly when you use it, or include `self` in the
closure’s capture list. Writing `self` explicitly lets you express your
intent, and reminds you to confirm that there isn’t a reference cycle. For
example, in the code below, the closure passed to
`someFunctionWithEscapingClosure(_:)` refers to `self` explicitly. In
contrast, the closure passed to `someFunctionWithNonescapingClosure(_:)` is a
nonescaping closure, which means it can refer to `self` implicitly.

    
    
    func someFunctionWithNonescapingClosure(closure: () -> Void) {
        closure()
    }
    
    
    class SomeClass {
        var x = 10
        func doSomething() {
            someFunctionWithEscapingClosure { self.x = 100 }
            someFunctionWithNonescapingClosure { x = 200 }
        }
    }
    
    
    let instance = SomeClass()
    instance.doSomething()
    print(instance.x)
    // Prints "200"
    
    
    completionHandlers.first?()
    print(instance.x)
    // Prints "100"
    

Here’s a version of `doSomething()` that captures `self` by including it in
the closure’s capture list, and then refers to `self` implicitly:

    
    
    class SomeOtherClass {
        var x = 10
        func doSomething() {
            someFunctionWithEscapingClosure { [self] in x = 100 }
            someFunctionWithNonescapingClosure { x = 200 }
        }
    }
    

If `self` is an instance of a structure or an enumeration, you can always
refer to `self` implicitly. However, an escaping closure can’t capture a
mutable reference to `self` when `self` is an instance of a structure or an
enumeration. Structures and enumerations don’t allow shared mutability, as
discussed in [Structures and Enumerations Are Value Types](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/classesandstructures#Structures-and-Enumerations-Are-Value-Types).

    
    
    struct SomeStruct {
        var x = 10
        mutating func doSomething() {
            someFunctionWithNonescapingClosure { x = 200 }  // Ok
            someFunctionWithEscapingClosure { x = 100 }     // Error
        }
    }
    

The call to the `someFunctionWithEscapingClosure` function in the example
above is an error because it’s inside a mutating method, so `self` is mutable.
That violates the rule that escaping closures can’t capture a mutable
reference to `self` for structures.

## [Autoclosures](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/closures/#Autoclosures)

An _autoclosure_ is a closure that’s automatically created to wrap an
expression that’s being passed as an argument to a function. It doesn’t take
any arguments, and when it’s called, it returns the value of the expression
that’s wrapped inside of it. This syntactic convenience lets you omit braces
around a function’s parameter by writing a normal expression instead of an
explicit closure.

It’s common to _call_ functions that take autoclosures, but it’s not common to
_implement_ that kind of function. For example, the
`assert(condition:message:file:line:)` function takes an autoclosure for its
`condition` and `message` parameters; its `condition` parameter is evaluated
only in debug builds and its `message` parameter is evaluated only if
`condition` is `false`.

An autoclosure lets you delay evaluation, because the code inside isn’t run
until you call the closure. Delaying evaluation is useful for code that has
side effects or is computationally expensive, because it lets you control when
that code is evaluated. The code below shows how a closure delays evaluation.

    
    
    var customersInLine = ["Chris", "Alex", "Ewa", "Barry", "Daniella"]
    print(customersInLine.count)
    // Prints "5"
    
    
    let customerProvider = { customersInLine.remove(at: 0) }
    print(customersInLine.count)
    // Prints "5"
    
    
    print("Now serving \(customerProvider())!")
    // Prints "Now serving Chris!"
    print(customersInLine.count)
    // Prints "4"
    

Even though the first element of the `customersInLine` array is removed by the
code inside the closure, the array element isn’t removed until the closure is
actually called. If the closure is never called, the expression inside the
closure is never evaluated, which means the array element is never removed.
Note that the type of `customerProvider` isn’t `String` but `() -> String` — a
function with no parameters that returns a string.

You get the same behavior of delayed evaluation when you pass a closure as an
argument to a function.

    
    
    // customersInLine is ["Alex", "Ewa", "Barry", "Daniella"]
    func serve(customer customerProvider: () -> String) {
        print("Now serving \(customerProvider())!")
    }
    serve(customer: { customersInLine.remove(at: 0) } )
    // Prints "Now serving Alex!"
    

The `serve(customer:)` function in the listing above takes an explicit closure
that returns a customer’s name. The version of `serve(customer:)` below
performs the same operation but, instead of taking an explicit closure, it
takes an autoclosure by marking its parameter’s type with the `@autoclosure`
attribute. Now you can call the function as if it took a `String` argument
instead of a closure. The argument is automatically converted to a closure,
because the `customerProvider` parameter’s type is marked with the
`@autoclosure` attribute.

    
    
    // customersInLine is ["Ewa", "Barry", "Daniella"]
    func serve(customer customerProvider: @autoclosure () -> String) {
        print("Now serving \(customerProvider())!")
    }
    serve(customer: customersInLine.remove(at: 0))
    // Prints "Now serving Ewa!"
    

Note

Overusing autoclosures can make your code hard to understand. The context and
function name should make it clear that evaluation is being deferred.

If you want an autoclosure that’s allowed to escape, use both the
`@autoclosure` and `@escaping` attributes. The `@escaping` attribute is
described above in [Escaping Closures](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-
programming-language/closures#Escaping-Closures).

    
    
    // customersInLine is ["Barry", "Daniella"]
    var customerProviders: [() -> String] = []
    func collectCustomerProviders(_ customerProvider: @autoclosure @escaping () -> String) {
        customerProviders.append(customerProvider)
    }
    collectCustomerProviders(customersInLine.remove(at: 0))
    collectCustomerProviders(customersInLine.remove(at: 0))
    
    
    print("Collected \(customerProviders.count) closures.")
    // Prints "Collected 2 closures."
    for customerProvider in customerProviders {
        print("Now serving \(customerProvider())!")
    }
    // Prints "Now serving Barry!"
    // Prints "Now serving Daniella!"
    

In the code above, instead of calling the closure passed to it as its
`customerProvider` argument, the `collectCustomerProviders(_:)` function
appends the closure to the `customerProviders` array. The array is declared
outside the scope of the function, which means the closures in the array can
be executed after the function returns. As a result, the value of the
`customerProvider` argument must be allowed to escape the function’s scope.

  * [ Closures ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#app-top)
  * [ Closure Expressions ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Closure-Expressions)
  * [ The Sorted Method ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#The-Sorted-Method)
  * [ Closure Expression Syntax ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Closure-Expression-Syntax)
  * [ Inferring Type From Context ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Inferring-Type-From-Context)
  * [ Implicit Returns from Single-Expression Closures ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Implicit-Returns-from-Single-Expression-Closures)
  * [ Shorthand Argument Names ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Shorthand-Argument-Names)
  * [ Operator Methods ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Operator-Methods)
  * [ Trailing Closures ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Trailing-Closures)
  * [ Capturing Values ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Capturing-Values)
  * [ Closures Are Reference Types ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Closures-Are-Reference-Types)
  * [ Escaping Closures ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Escaping-Closures)
  * [ Autoclosures ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Autoclosures)

