  * [ The Swift Programming Language (6.2) ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language)
  * Patterns 

# Patterns

Match and destructure values.

A _pattern_ represents the structure of a single value or a composite value.
For example, the structure of a tuple `(1, 2)` is a comma-separated list of
two elements. Because patterns represent the structure of a value rather than
any one particular value, you can match them with a variety of values. For
instance, the pattern `(x, y)` matches the tuple `(1, 2)` and any other two-
element tuple. In addition to matching a pattern with a value, you can extract
part or all of a composite value and bind each part to a constant or variable
name.

In Swift, there are two basic kinds of patterns: those that successfully match
any kind of value, and those that may fail to match a specified value at
runtime.

The first kind of pattern is used for destructuring values in simple variable,
constant, and optional bindings. These include wildcard patterns, identifier
patterns, and any value binding or tuple patterns containing them. You can
specify a type annotation for these patterns to constrain them to match only
values of a certain type.

The second kind of pattern is used for full pattern matching, where the values
you’re trying to match against may not be there at runtime. These include
enumeration case patterns, optional patterns, expression patterns, and type-
casting patterns. You use these patterns in a case label of a `switch`
statement, a `catch` clause of a `do` statement, or in the case condition of
an `if`, `while`, `guard`, or `for`-`in` statement.

Grammar of a pattern

 _pattern_ → _wildcard-pattern_ _type-annotation_ _?_  
_pattern_ → _identifier-pattern_ _type-annotation_ _?_  
_pattern_ → _value-binding-pattern_  
_pattern_ → _tuple-pattern_ _type-annotation_ _?_  
_pattern_ → _enum-case-pattern_  
_pattern_ → _optional-pattern_  
_pattern_ → _type-casting-pattern_  
_pattern_ → _expression-pattern_

## [Wildcard Pattern](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/patterns/#Wildcard-Pattern)

A _wildcard pattern_ matches and ignores any value and consists of an
underscore (`_`). Use a wildcard pattern when you don’t care about the values
being matched against. For example, the following code iterates through the
closed range `1...3`, ignoring the current value of the range on each
iteration of the loop:

    
    
    for _ in 1...3 {
        // Do something three times.
    }
    

Grammar of a wildcard pattern

 _wildcard-pattern_ → **`_`**

## [Identifier Pattern](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/patterns/#Identifier-Pattern)

An _identifier pattern_ matches any value and binds the matched value to a
variable or constant name. For example, in the following constant declaration,
`someValue` is an identifier pattern that matches the value `42` of type
`Int`:

    
    
    let someValue = 42
    

When the match succeeds, the value `42` is bound (assigned) to the constant
name `someValue`.

When the pattern on the left-hand side of a variable or constant declaration
is an identifier pattern, the identifier pattern is implicitly a subpattern of
a value-binding pattern.

Grammar of an identifier pattern

 _identifier-pattern_ → _identifier_

## [Value-Binding Pattern](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/patterns/#Value-Binding-Pattern)

A _value-binding pattern_ binds matched values to variable or constant names.
Value-binding patterns that bind a matched value to the name of a constant
begin with the `let` keyword; those that bind to the name of variable begin
with the `var` keyword.

Identifiers patterns within a value-binding pattern bind new named variables
or constants to their matching values. For example, you can decompose the
elements of a tuple and bind the value of each element to a corresponding
identifier pattern.

    
    
    let point = (3, 2)
    switch point {
    // Bind x and y to the elements of point.
    case let (x, y):
        print("The point is at (\(x), \(y)).")
    }
    // Prints "The point is at (3, 2)."
    

In the example above, `let` distributes to each identifier pattern in the
tuple pattern `(x, y)`. Because of this behavior, the `switch` cases `case let
(x, y):` and `case (let x, let y):` match the same values.

Grammar of a value-binding pattern

 _value-binding-pattern_ → **`var`** _pattern_ | **`let`** _pattern_

## [Tuple Pattern](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/patterns/#Tuple-Pattern)

A _tuple pattern_ is a comma-separated list of zero or more patterns, enclosed
in parentheses. Tuple patterns match values of corresponding tuple types.

You can constrain a tuple pattern to match certain kinds of tuple types by
using type annotations. For example, the tuple pattern `(x, y): (Int, Int)` in
the constant declaration `let (x, y): (Int, Int) = (1, 2)` matches only tuple
types in which both elements are of type `Int`.

When a tuple pattern is used as the pattern in a `for`-`in` statement or in a
variable or constant declaration, it can contain only wildcard patterns,
identifier patterns, optional patterns, or other tuple patterns that contain
those. For example, the following code isn’t valid because the element `0` in
the tuple pattern `(x, 0)` is an expression pattern:

    
    
    let points = [(0, 0), (1, 0), (1, 1), (2, 0), (2, 1)]
    // This code isn't valid.
    for (x, 0) in points {
        /* ... */
    }
    

The parentheses around a tuple pattern that contains a single element have no
effect. The pattern matches values of that single element’s type. For example,
the following are equivalent:

    
    
    let a = 2        // a: Int = 2
    let (a) = 2      // a: Int = 2
    let (a): Int = 2 // a: Int = 2
    

Grammar of a tuple pattern

 _tuple-pattern_ → **`(`** _tuple-pattern-element-list_ _?_ **`)`**  
_tuple-pattern-element-list_ → _tuple-pattern-element_ | _tuple-pattern-element_ **`,`** _tuple-pattern-element-list_   
_tuple-pattern-element_ → _pattern_ | _identifier_ **`:`** _pattern_

## [Enumeration Case Pattern](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/patterns/#Enumeration-Case-Pattern)

An _enumeration case pattern_ matches a case of an existing enumeration type.
Enumeration case patterns appear in `switch` statement case labels and in the
case conditions of `if`, `while`, `guard`, and `for`-`in` statements.

If the enumeration case you’re trying to match has any associated values, the
corresponding enumeration case pattern must specify a tuple pattern that
contains one element for each associated value. For an example that uses a
`switch` statement to match enumeration cases containing associated values,
see [Associated Values](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/enumerations#Associated-Values).

An enumeration case pattern also matches values of that case wrapped in an
optional. This simplified syntax lets you omit an optional pattern. Note that,
because `Optional` is implemented as an enumeration, `.none` and `.some` can
appear in the same switch as the cases of the enumeration type.

    
    
    enum SomeEnum { case left, right }
    let x: SomeEnum? = .left
    switch x {
    case .left:
        print("Turn left")
    case .right:
        print("Turn right")
    case nil:
        print("Keep going straight")
    }
    // Prints "Turn left"
    

Grammar of an enumeration case pattern

 _enum-case-pattern_ → _type-identifier_ _?_ **`.`** _enum-case-name_ _tuple-
pattern_ _?_

## [Optional Pattern](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/patterns/#Optional-Pattern)

An _optional pattern_ matches values wrapped in a `some(Wrapped)` case of an
`Optional<Wrapped>` enumeration. Optional patterns consist of an identifier
pattern followed immediately by a question mark and appear in the same places
as enumeration case patterns.

Because optional patterns are syntactic sugar for `Optional` enumeration case
patterns, the following are equivalent:

    
    
    let someOptional: Int? = 42
    // Match using an enumeration case pattern.
    if case .some(let x) = someOptional {
        print(x)
    }
    
    
    // Match using an optional pattern.
    if case let x? = someOptional {
        print(x)
    }
    

The optional pattern provides a convenient way to iterate over an array of
optional values in a `for`-`in` statement, executing the body of the loop only
for non-`nil` elements.

    
    
    let arrayOfOptionalInts: [Int?] = [nil, 2, 3, nil, 5]
    // Match only non-nil values.
    for case let number? in arrayOfOptionalInts {
        print("Found a \(number)")
    }
    // Found a 2
    // Found a 3
    // Found a 5
    

Grammar of an optional pattern

 _optional-pattern_ → _identifier-pattern_ **`?`**

## [Type-Casting Patterns](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/patterns/#Type-Casting-Patterns)

There are two type-casting patterns, the `is` pattern and the `as` pattern.
The `is` pattern appears only in `switch` statement case labels. The `is` and
`as` patterns have the following form:

    
    
    is <#type#>
    <#pattern#> as <#type#>
    

The `is` pattern matches a value if the type of that value at runtime is the
same as the type specified in the right-hand side of the `is` pattern — or a
subclass of that type. The `is` pattern behaves like the `is` operator in that
they both perform a type cast but discard the returned type.

The `as` pattern matches a value if the type of that value at runtime is the
same as the type specified in the right-hand side of the `as` pattern — or a
subclass of that type. If the match succeeds, the type of the matched value is
cast to the _pattern_ specified in the right-hand side of the `as` pattern.

For an example that uses a `switch` statement to match values with `is` and
`as` patterns, see [Type Casting for Any and AnyObject](/swift-
book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/typecasting#Type-Casting-
for-Any-and-AnyObject).

Grammar of a type casting pattern

 _type-casting-pattern_ → _is-pattern_ | _as-pattern_   
_is-pattern_ → **`is`** _type_  
_as-pattern_ → _pattern_ **`as`** _type_

## [Expression Pattern](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-
language/patterns/#Expression-Pattern)

An _expression pattern_ represents the value of an expression. Expression
patterns appear only in `switch` statement case labels.

The expression represented by the expression pattern is compared with the
value of an input expression using the pattern-matching operator (`~=`) from
the Swift standard library. The matches succeeds if the `~=` operator returns
`true`. By default, the `~=` operator compares two values of the same type
using the `==` operator. It can also match a value with a range of values, by
checking whether the value is contained within the range, as the following
example shows.

    
    
    let point = (1, 2)
    switch point {
    case (0, 0):
        print("(0, 0) is at the origin.")
    case (-2...2, -2...2):
        print("(\(point.0), \(point.1)) is near the origin.")
    default:
        print("The point is at (\(point.0), \(point.1)).")
    }
    // Prints "(1, 2) is near the origin."
    

You can overload the `~=` operator to provide custom expression matching
behavior. For example, you can rewrite the above example to compare the
`point` expression with a string representations of points.

    
    
    // Overload the ~= operator to match a string with an integer.
    func ~= (pattern: String, value: Int) -> Bool {
        return pattern == "\(value)"
    }
    switch point {
    case ("0", "0"):
        print("(0, 0) is at the origin.")
    default:
        print("The point is at (\(point.0), \(point.1)).")
    }
    // Prints "The point is at (1, 2)."
    

Grammar of an expression pattern

 _expression-pattern_ → _expression_

  * [ Patterns ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#app-top)
  * [ Wildcard Pattern ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#Wildcard-Pattern)
  * [ Identifier Pattern ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#Identifier-Pattern)
  * [ Value-Binding Pattern ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#Value-Binding-Pattern)
  * [ Tuple Pattern ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#Tuple-Pattern)
  * [ Enumeration Case Pattern ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#Enumeration-Case-Pattern)
  * [ Optional Pattern ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#Optional-Pattern)
  * [ Type-Casting Patterns ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#Type-Casting-Patterns)
  * [ Expression Pattern ](/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/patterns/#Expression-Pattern)

