# Apple Developer Documentation

Browse the latest sample code, articles, tutorials, and API reference.

## Dive into WWDC25

[ New overview  Explore the new design principles Learn how to design and
develop beautiful interfaces that leverage Liquid Glass. Read overview
](/documentation/TechnologyOverviews/liquid-glass)[ New article  Adopting
Liquid Glass Find out how to bring the new material to your app. Read article
](/documentation/TechnologyOverviews/adopting-liquid-glass)[ New sample
Landmarks: Building an app with Liquid Glass Enhance your app experience with
system-provided and custom Liquid Glass. View sample code
](/documentation/SwiftUI/Landmarks-Building-an-app-with-Liquid-Glass)

## Get a running start with AI

[ New article  Writing code with intelligence in Xcode Generate code, fix bugs
fast, and learn as you go with intelligence built directly into Xcode. View
article ](/documentation/Xcode/writing-code-with-intelligence-in-xcode)[ New
article  Improving the safety of generative model output Create generative
experiences that appropriately handle sensitive inputs and respect people.
View article ](/documentation/FoundationModels/improving-the-safety-of-
generative-model-output)[ New article  Generating content and performing tasks
with Foundation Models Enhance the experience in your app by prompting an on-
device large language model. View article
](/documentation/FoundationModels/generating-content-and-performing-tasks-
with-foundation-models)

## Stay informed about what's new

  * ### Updates and release notes

View major documentation updates and highlights from WWDC, browse ongoing
updates from frameworks over time, and jump to the latest release notes.

[View collection ](/documentation/Updates)

## Explore hundreds of samples

  * ### Sample code library

Expand your knowledge of Apple technologies by exploring the full library of
sample code projects.

[View samples ](/documentation/SampleCode)

## Learn about features in Swift and Xcode

[ Creating your app icon using Icon Composer ](/documentation/Xcode/creating-
your-app-icon-using-icon-composer)

[ Launching your app from a Live Activity
](/documentation/ActivityKit/launching-your-app-from-a-live-activity)

[ Observing playback state in SwiftUI ](/documentation/AVFoundation/observing-
playback-state-in-swiftui)

[ Adopting inheritance in SwiftData ](/documentation/SwiftData/Adopting-
inheritance-in-SwiftData)

[ Performing long-running tasks on iOS and iPadOS
](/documentation/BackgroundTasks/performing-long-running-tasks-on-ios-and-
ipados)

[ Recording UI automation for testing
](/documentation/XCUIAutomation/recording-ui-automation-for-testing)

[ Running code snippets using the playground macro
](/documentation/Xcode/running-code-snippets-using-the-playground-macro)

[ Managing your app’s information property list values
](/documentation/BundleResources/managing-your-app-s-information-property-
list)

## Discover Apple Intelligence and ML

[ Technology overview  Apple Intelligence and machine learning Add intelligent
features with Apple Intelligence, machine learning, and related technologies.
View technology overview ](/documentation/TechnologyOverviews/ai-machine-
learning)[ Design guidance  Machine learning Design models that enable apps
and games to learn from data and usage patterns, improving existing
experiences and creating engaging new ones. View design guidance
](/design/Human-Interface-Guidelines/machine-learning)

[![An illustration that represents a foundation model.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/3b31c20778305122ef5216e67f6a6e33/foundation-
models-framework-landing-PageImage-card%402x.png) Foundation Models
](/documentation/FoundationModels)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/37d97208374aeff07074ab16eabe4de2/loading-
and-using-a-custom-adapter-with-foundation-models-PageImage-card%402x.png)
Loading and using a custom adapter with Foundation Models
](/documentation/FoundationModels/loading-and-using-a-custom-adapter-with-
foundation-models)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/706f49331537ba091f15c2b7ee576cff/displaying-
static-and-interactive-snippets-PageImage-card%402x.png) Displaying static and
interactive snippets ](/documentation/AppIntents/displaying-static-and-
interactive-snippets)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/f78b47a92766c8f1192b4e88b5d5fe28/integrating-
your-app-with-visual-intelligence-PageImage-card%402x.png) Integrating your
app with visual intelligence ](/documentation/VisualIntelligence/integrating-
your-app-with-visual-intelligence)

## Level up your app's interface

[![An illustration of a person viewing immersive media.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/73f60cc8c4dd45392243ff59628f9a34/immersive-
media-support-framework-PageImage-card.png) Immersive Media Support
](/documentation/ImmersiveMediaSupport)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/ce9800cb29684bff27c18857b225cec9/components-
the-menu-bar-thumbnail%402x.png) The menu bar ](/design/Human-Interface-
Guidelines/the-menu-bar)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/5eb8bb9dc62a69e03ece288c57981bf5/creating-
engaging-challenges-from-leaderboards-PageImage-card%402x.png) Creating
engaging challenges from leaderboards ](/documentation/GameKit/creating-
engaging-challenges-from-leaderboards)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/ea7dbe6b98d59eaa5b56f24775d9d04a/understanding-
the-metal-4-core-API-PageImage-card%402x.png) Understanding the Metal 4 core
API ](/documentation/Metal/understanding-the-metal-4-core-api)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/e232c3fca7c169e42bc08f158def6e39/discovering-
and-tracking-game-controllers-and-styli-PageImage-card%402x.png) Discovering
and tracking spatial game controllers and styli
](/documentation/GameController/discovering-and-tracking-spatial-game-
controllers-and-styli)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/64335697bd351ef595df7345eef40fc9/building-
your-macOS-game-remotely-from-your-PC-PageImage-card%402x.png) Building your
macOS game remotely from your PC
](/documentation/TechnologyOverviews/building-your-macos-game-remotely-from-
your-pc)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/ae249974ffe1702b20be54c2ec2eaa7c/signing-
people-in-to-media-apps-automatically-PageImage-card%402x.png) Signing people
in to their media accounts automatically
](/documentation/VideoSubscriberAccount/signing-people-in-to-media-apps-
automatically)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/f76aae8a0d425aa6f8954c38b04c32b5/building-
a-menu-bar-with-swift-ui%402x.png) Building and customizing the menu bar with
SwiftUI ](/documentation/SwiftUI/Building-and-customizing-the-menu-bar-with-
SwiftUI)

## Development essentials

[![App icons on a graph paper background.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/ed2421d5f448342a96d8f11db9dac9e6/technology-
overview-card%402x.png) Development guides  Technology overviews Learn about
the wide range of technologies you use to develop software for Apple
platforms. View technology overviews
](/documentation/TechnologyOverviews)[![Image of stylized devices on a graph
paper background.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/193a8c54cd9389440cc89106cc8d0576/human-
interface-guidelines-hero-homepage%402x.png) Design guidance  Human Interface
Guidelines Design a great experience for any Apple platform. View design
guidance ](/design/human-interface-guidelines)

[![A stylized Swift logo using dashes on a white or blue
background.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/a0ca0e84aabe29cd5bf4d29b4ab5046e/SwiftUI-
PageImage-card%402x.png) SwiftUI Declare the user interface and behavior for
your app on every platform. View API collection ](/documentation/SwiftUI)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/29d909351f1c009f459bda11061d6b7a/View-
Fundamentals-PageImage-card%402x.png) View fundamentals Define the visual
elements of your app using a hierarchy of views. Read article
](/documentation/SwiftUI/View-fundamentals)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/cc85e2da92b22b0f202139b163731110/supporting-
multiple-languages-in-your-app-PageImage-card%402x.png) Supporting multiple
languages in your app Internationalize your app’s strings, images, and other
resource types to prepare for the translation process. Read article
](/documentation/Xcode/supporting-multiple-languages-in-your-app)

[![An illustration that shows three people: someone with low vision walking
with the assistance of a guide dog while using an iPhone and AirPods; a person
in a wheelchair using an iPhone; and a person wearing a hearing aid and a
camping backpack while walking and using an iPhone.](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/e897626aef68f2e6ecf21fb802bd39c6/Accessibility-
PageImage-card%402x.png) Accessibility Make your apps accessible to everyone
who uses Apple devices. View API collection ](/documentation/Accessibility)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/237b7ecda118fda7de38b4d35dd9924c/Creating-
your-first-visionOS-app-PageImage-card%402x.png) Creating your first visionOS
app Build a new visionOS app using SwiftUI and add platform-specific features.
Read article ](/documentation/visionOS/creating-your-first-visionos-app)

[![](https://docs-
assets.developer.apple.com/published/071918d37fee7b44676a44d474427491/Developing-
a-WidgetKit-strategy-PageImage-card%402x.png) Developing a WidgetKit strategy
Explore features, tasks, related frameworks, and constraints as you make a
plan to implement widgets, controls, watch complications, and Live Activities.
Read article ](/documentation/WidgetKit/Developing-a-WidgetKit-strategy)

  * [![An icon that represents download, showing a circle around an arrow pointing down.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/f73db44e6569cea0f2b218d3d1994d95/Downloads-icon%402x.png)DownloadsGet the latest SDKs and beta operating systems for all Apple platforms. Download resources ](https://developer.apple.com/download)
  * [![An icon that represents archive, showing a file folder box with a lid.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/67c1995677ae30c5b6bb6b7d1d48c609/Archive-icon%402x.png)Documentation ArchiveAccess archived documentation and sample code that’s no longer updated. Visit archive ](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/navigation)
  * [![An icon that represents videos, showing a circle with a play button in the center.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/d81ca0d015fa862a14084dd1936bfaa0/Videos-icon%402x.png)VideosLearn about the latest technologies presented at Apple developer events. Watch videos ](https://developer.apple.com/videos)
  * [![An icon that represents forums, showing two overlapping speech bubbles.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/ca9ee0e8bdff133e2d1754a9d7e9aad8/Discussion-forums-icon%402x.png)Discussion ForumsAsk questions and discuss development with Apple engineers and other developers. View forums ](https://developer.apple.com/devforums)

