![](/assets/elements/icons/apple-games-app/apple-games-app-128x128_2x.png?1)
![](/assets/elements/icons/apple-games-app-dark/apple-games-app-
dark-128x128_2x.png?1)

# Introducing the Apple Games app

An all-in-one gaming destination for players to explore what’s happening
across their games, discover new ones, and play with friends.

**Now available for all customers.**

![](/games-app/images/lockup-hero_2x.png?1)

## Get the highlights

### A new way to get discovered

The Games app is a dedicated destination for people who love playing games on
their Apple devices. Players can find new games through personalized
recommendations based on the games they play, and what their friends are
playing — offering an entirely new way for your games to get discovered. The
Games app is pre-installed on player’s devices on iOS 26, iPadOS 26, and macOS
26, or later.

### Engage current and past players

The Games app highlights Game Center features and In-App Events to encourage
player engagement in your games. Achievements and leaderboards let players
track their progress from the Games app, and get notified if a friend passes
their score, so they can jump back in or redownload your game — even if they
no longer have your game installed. When you use challenges and multiplayer
activities, the Games app can recommend your game in more places, making it
easy for players to bring their friends in on the action. And In-App Events
help you showcase new content in your game on the Home tab.

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/0C96EE37-E8A0-46DB-88B3-3BF6C3F633DD/9893_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
Engage players with the Games app ](/videos/play/wwdc2025/215/)

## Where your game can appear

![](/games-app/images/home.svg)

#### Home

The Home tab is where players can get the latest highlights, discover new
games and challenges, as well as jump back into their games. On the Home tab,
players can see their most recently played games, top charts, In-App Events,
personalized recommendations, editorial selections, friend activity, and more.

![](/games-app/images/person-2-fill.svg)

#### Friends

The Friends tab keeps players connected to friends and helps them discover new
games their friends are playing. They can also invite friends to challenges or
multiplayer matches, as well as compare scores and achievements.

![](/games-app/images/joystickcontroller-fill.svg)

#### Arcade

Apple Arcade subscribers can access the entire catalog of games, play the
latest releases, and more — all from the Arcade tab. If you offer games on
Apple Arcade, your games can also appear here.

![](/games-app/images/square-stack-fill.svg)

#### Library

On the Library tab, players can quickly jump into a specific game they’ve
installed and redownload old favorites. They can see all the of the games they
have downloaded from the App Store for their iPhone and iPad, and all games
downloaded from any platform or service for Mac.

![](/games-app/images/magnifyingglass.svg)

#### Search

Players can use Search to find and download games as well as browse curated
collections and charts.

#### Your game page

This is where players can learn more about your game and download it, as well
as tap to play it and invite friends to play. Players can also view the latest
in your game like In-App Events and Game Center activity, such as
achievements, scores, and friend activity. Your game page automatically
includes the same metadata from your App Store product page — such as your app
description, screenshots, and previews.

## Make the most of the Games app

Games that are available on the App Store will automatically appear on the
Games app including in search results, the Library tab, and the Continue
Playing section. Additionally, games that include Game Center features and In-
App Events are prominently displayed across the Games app in order to help
players discover and engage deeper with them.

![](/assets/elements/icons/game-center/game-center-96x96_2x.png?1)
![](/assets/elements/icons/game-center-dark/game-center-dark-96x96_2x.png?1)

### Maximize discovery with Game Center

Game Center makes playing across Apple devices more connected and rewarding
for players, with features like achievements, leaderboards, and discovering
new games through friends.

##### Support Game Center initialization.

With initialization, players are automatically signed in to their Game Center
account and can access your game’s activity across their Apple devices. This
lets your game appear in social recommendations on the Home and Friends tabs,
as well as in a new Top Played chart which appears on the Games app and on the
App Store. [Learn how to initialize a
player.](/documentation/gamekit/authenticating-a-player)

![](/games-app/images/device-friends-game-center_2x.png)

##### Add additional Game Center features.

To help players and their friends discover and engage more deeply with your
games, the following features can appear as recommendations across the Games
app:

**Leaderboards.** Encourage friendly competition and re-engagement within your
game. With leaderboards, players are automatically notified when a friend
beats their score. [Learn how to encourage progress and competition with
leaderboards](/documentation/gamekit/encourage-progress-and-competition-with-
leaderboards).

**Challenges.** Turn single-player activities into social experiences with
friends. With challenges, players can invite their friends to compete in
score-based competitions to see who can win before time runs out. [Learn how
to create engaging challenges from
leaderboards.](/documentation/gamekit/creating-engaging-challenges-from-
leaderboards)

**Achievements.** Motivate players and help them track progress in your game.
Players can collect and unlock achievements, and see which ones their friends
have completed. [Learn how to motivate players with
achievements.](/documentation/gamekit/rewarding-players-with-achievements)

**Multiplayer activities.** Promote your game’s multiplayer experiences across
the Games app, and help players seamlessly invite friends to join — even
across platforms. You can configure multiplayer activities using the
infrastructure provided by Game Center, or your own multiplayer system.

  * [Learn more about Game Center features](/game-center/)

[ ![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/3055294D-836B-4513-B7B0-0BC5666246B0/0BEC1E9E-5221-48F9-853B-BEDA2BE23D63/9892_wide_900x506_2x.jpg)
Get started with Game Center ](/videos/play/wwdc2025/214/)

### Provide In-App Events

In‑App Events are timely events within your games — such as competitions.
People can discover your In‑App Events on both the Games app and the App Store
on iOS and iPadOS, giving you another way to showcase your events and reach
new, current, and previous players.

In-App Events can appear on the Home tab, on your game page, in a player’s
library, and in search results.

  * [Learn more about In-App Events](/app-store/in-app-events/)
  * [Configuring In-App Events](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/offer-in-app-events/)
  * [Get started with In-App Events](/videos/play/tech-talks/110347/)

