Foundation Models framework

### Tap into the power of Apple Intelligence

You now have direct access to the on-device foundation model at the core of
Apple Intelligence so you can build experiences that are smart, private, and
work without internet connectivity through the Foundation Models framework.
With native support for Swift, you can tap into the model with as few as three
lines of code. You can use this framework to power intelligent features in
your app, with model capabilities, such as text extraction, summarization, and
more. Features like guided generation, tool calling, and more are built into
the framework, making it easier than ever to implement intelligent experiences
right into your existing apps and games.

Core ML

### Fast and easy integration

Core ML delivers blazingly fast performance on Apple devices with easy
integration of machine learning and AI models into your apps and games.
Convert models from popular training libraries using Core ML Tools or download
ready-to-use Core ML models. Easily preview models and understand their
performance right in Xcode.

Speech

### Advanced, on-device transcription

Take advantage of speech recognition and saliency features for a variety of
languages. With the all-new SpeechAnalyzer, you can bring advanced, on-device
transcription to your app.

Vision

### Robust image and video analysis

Build powerful image and video analysis features with the latest in computer
vision. New updates bring full-document text recognition and camera smudge
detection to help elevate your app’s utilization of image analysis.

Machine-learning-powered APIs

### Build more with on-device models

Bring intelligent on-device machine-learning-powered features, natural
language analysis, translation, and sound classification, to your app with
just a few lines of code.

CreateML

### Customize built-in system models

The Create ML app lets you quickly build and train Core ML models right on
your Mac with no code. The easy-to-use app interface and ability to customize
built-in system models make the process easier than ever, so all you need to
get started is your training data.

Metal

### Power the most advanced graphics workload

Metal puts the advanced capabilities of Apple-designed GPUs at your fingertips
to power the most advanced graphics workloads. Now you can tap into machine
learning capabilities like MetalFX, run inference networks directly in your
shaders, and implement the latest neural rendering techniques with Metal 4.

Accelerate/BNNSGraph

### Low Latency ML on the CPU

With the Accelerate framework and BNNSGraph API, you can optimize your ML
workloads. When running real-time signal processing on the CPU, Accelerate’s
BNNS Graph API provides strict latency and memory management control for your
ML tasks.

MLX

### An efficient array framework

MLX is an efficient array framework for numerical computing and machine
learning on Apple silicon.

Experiment, train, and fine-tune open sourced models on your Mac, taking full
advantage of Apple silicon’s unified memory.

[Learn more](https://mlx-framework.org/)

# Machine Learning & AI

Create intelligent features and enable new experiences for your apps and games
by leveraging powerful on-device machine learning. Learn how to build, use,
train, and deploy machine learning and AI models for iPhone, iPad, Apple
Vision Pro, Mac, and Apple Watch.

![](/machine-learning/images/lockup-hero-large_2x.png)

## Get to know machine learning & AI

  * Foundation Models framework

### Tap into the power of Apple Intelligence

![](/assets/elements/icons/foundationmodel/foundationmodel-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Core ML

### Fast and easy integration

![](/assets/elements/icons/core-ml/core-ml-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Speech

### Advanced, on-device transcription

More about this tile

  * Vision

### Robust image and video analysis

More about this tile

  * Machine-learning-powered APIs

### Build more with on-device models

More about this tile

  * CreateML

### Customize built-in system models

![](/assets/elements/icons/create-ml/create-ml-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Metal

### Power the most advanced graphics workloads

![](/assets/elements/icons/metal/metal-256x256_2x.png)

More about this tile

  * Accelerate/BNNSGraph

### Low Latency ML on the CPU

More about this tile

  * MLX

### An efficient array framework

![](/machine-learning/images/mlx_2x.png)

More about this tile

### [What’s new in Machine Learning & AI Dive into the latest key technologies
and capabilities. ![](/assets/elements/icons/create-ml/create-
ml-256x256_2x.png) ](/machine-learning/whats-new/)

### [New to Machine Learning & AI development? Check out the machine learning
tutorials, an easy-to-navigate collection of resources to get started.
![](/pathways/images/hero-pathways-b-small_2x.png) ](/machine-learning/get-
started/)

## Developer stories

[ ![](/articles/images/article-moises-0_2x.jpg) Play it again The musical
marvel Moises splits recorded songs into different parts.  Read more
]({$page.lang.url_apac}/articles/moises/)

[ ![](/articles/images/article-swingvision_2x.jpg) Holding court The
SwingVision team harnesses machine learning to create a tennis app people
love. Read more ](/news/?id=0pg4dthn)

[ ![](/articles/images/article-oko_2x.jpg) ML meets accessibility Oko makes
street crossings more accessible. Read more ](/news/?id=58c4urmu)

### [Meet with Apple Sharpen your skills through in-person and online
activities around the world. Explore the schedule ](/events/view/upcoming-
events/)

[ ![](/assets/elements/icons/create-ml/create-ml-96x96_2x.png) Resources
Browse tools, documentation, sample code, videos, and more. Learn more
](/machine-learning/resources/)

