![](/assets/elements/icons/xcode-cloud/xcode-cloud-128x128_2x.png)
![](/assets/elements/icons/xcode-cloud-dark/xcode-cloud-dark-128x128_2x.png)

# Xcode Cloud

Xcode Cloud is a continuous integration and delivery service built into Xcode
and designed expressly for Apple developers. It accelerates the development
and delivery of high-quality apps by bringing together cloud-based tools that
help you build apps, run automated tests in parallel, deliver apps to testers,
and view and manage user feedback.

![](/xcode-cloud/images/xc-15-hero-large_2x.jpg)

## Automated workflows

Configure workflows to suit your development process or use the built-in
workflow to get started and customize it as your process evolves. You can
build every committed code change and your team will be instantly alerted if a
change introduces any issues — potentially saving days of wasted time before
bugs are found by your users.

![](/xcode-cloud/images/screen-automated-workflow_2x.png)

## Parallel testing

Configure Xcode Cloud to test one or two device types for a quick check on
your project’s health, or test a wide range of device configurations less
frequently for edge cases. Xcode Cloud allocates resources in parallel to
quickly complete the testing job while you and your Mac keep coding.

![](/xcode-cloud/images/parallel-testing_2x.png)

## Built into Xcode

Results for your builds and tests — and even feedback on crashes from users —
are presented right inside Xcode. As builds happen in the cloud, Xcode shows
live status indicators and lets you filter by the build tasks you want to
monitor.

![](/xcode-cloud/images/xc-built-into-xcode-large_2x.jpg)

## Built into App Store Connect

The App Store Connect web dashboard shows critical information about your
builds and testing results. You can also edit your workflows and launch builds
directly from the web.

![](/xcode-cloud/images/xc-asc-built-large_2x.jpg)

![](/xcode-cloud/images/works-with-testflight.svg)

## Works with TestFlight

Xcode Cloud and TestFlight work together to install new builds for your team
so that everyone can immediately start testing, or to send specific branches
of your app with unique in-development features to select external testers as
you experiment with new ideas. You can also create and share tester notes,
helping keep all of your users up to date on your latest improvements.

![](/xcode-cloud/images/secure-and-private.svg)

## Secured and private

Xcode Cloud is designed to protect your projects and privacy, with all data
encrypted at rest and access protected by two-factor authentication. Source
code is only accessed for builds and the ephemeral build environments are
destroyed when your build completes.

## Track and manage usage

Track the usage and trends of projects, products, and workflows across your
team in App Store Connect.

![](/xcode-cloud/images/xc-track-manage-large_2x.jpg)

## ![](/assets/elements/icons/xcode-s/xcode-s-96x96_2x.png)Get started for
free with Xcode

To get started, configure a workflow in Xcode and start building your app in
Xcode Cloud in just a few minutes.1 The build status is displayed in Xcode and
reports show the results immediately after the build finishes.

25 compute hours/month

Included with Apple Developer Program membership

[Get started](/xcode-cloud/get-started/)

### Need more compute hours?

Apple Developer Program membership includes 25 compute hours2 per month. If
you need more compute hours, additional Xcode Cloud monthly subscriptions are
available. Upgrade or downgrade your subscription at any time.

100 compute hours/month

US$49.99/month

250 compute hours/month

US$99.99/month

1,000 compute hours/month

US$399.99/month

10,000 compute hours/month

US$3,999.99/month

