You can now submit additional items while you have another submission in
progress. [Learn more](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-
review/overview-of-submitting-for-review)

![](/assets/elements/icons/symbols/appstore.svg)

# Submit your apps and games today

Take advantage of the latest capabilities in Apple platforms and the App Store
to deliver your most innovative apps yet.

## ![](/assets/elements/icons/ios-ipados-26/ios-ipados-26-96x96_2x.png)Update
for new OS releases

Build and test with [Xcode 26](/xcode/), which supports the latest SDKs for
[iOS](/ios/whats-new/), [iPadOS](/ipados/whats-new/), [macOS](/macos/whats-
new/), [tvOS](/tvos/whats-new/), [visionOS](/visionos/whats-new/), and
[watchOS](/watchos/whats-new/) to take advantage of the latest advancements in
Apple platforms. Make sure your apps and games work as expected on Apple
devices running the latest OS releases. Starting April 2026, apps and games
uploaded to App Store Connect need to meet the following minimum requirements.

  * iOS and iPadOS apps must be built with the iOS & iPadOS 26 SDK or later
  * tvOS apps must be built with the tvOS 26 SDK or later
  * visionOS apps must be built with the visionOS 26 SDK or later
  * watchOS apps must be built with the watchOS 26 SDK or later

[Download Xcode 26](https://apps.apple.com/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12)

##  ![](/assets/elements/icons/app-store-connect/app-store-
connect-96x96_2x.png) ![](/assets/elements/icons/app-store-connect-dark/app-
store-connect-dark-96x96_2x.png) Set up in App Store Connect

When you distribute on the App Store, people around the world can discover and
download your apps and games in 175 storefronts and 39 languages.

### App Review

The guiding principle of the App Store is simple — we want to provide a
trusted experience for people to get apps and games, and a great opportunity
for developers to succeed. To do this, Apple reviews all apps, app updates,
bundles, In-App Purchases, and In-App Events to evaluate they meet
requirements for privacy, security, safety, and reliability. As you plan and
build, get acquainted with the [App Review Guidelines](/app-
store/review/guidelines/) early on in your app or game’s development in order
to make appropriate design decisions and help your review process goes as
smooth as possible.

[Learn about App Review](/distribute/app-review/)

### TestFlight

You can get feedback on your apps, games, and App Clips throughout your
development using TestFlight, Apple’s beta app testing service. Simply add
testers from your internal team, or invite external testers via email or
public link. Testers download, test, and provide feedback on your beta app,
using the TestFlight app. You can then use their provided feedback — including
screenshots with contextual feedback, or crash details — to improve your app
or game.

[Learn about TestFlight](/testflight/)

### Product page

Make sure your app’s name, icon, description, screenshots, app previews, and
keywords are ready for your App Store product page. You can also take this
opportunity to update your subtitle and promotional text, and choose to
promote any new In-App Purchases.

**Age ratings.** The [age rating system](/help/app-store-
connect/reference/age-ratings-values-and-definitions) for apps and games has
been updated to provide people with more granular age ratings and categories.
The current rating for each of your apps has been automatically adjusted to
align with this new system and will be reflected on Apple devices running a
minimum of iOS 26, iPadOS 26, macOS 26, tvOS 26, visionOS 26, and watchOS 26.
You can view the age rating in the App Information section of your app in App
Store Connect.

**App privacy details.** Enter all necessary information about your app’s
privacy practices, including the practices of third‑party partners whose code
you integrate into your app, in App Store Connect. These details inform the
[Privacy Nutrition Label](/app-store/app-privacy-details/) that appears on
your product page and are required in order to submit new apps and app updates
to the App Store.

**Accessibility support.** You can now share information in App Store Connect
about your app or game’s support — such as whether it includes VoiceOver,
Voice Control, Larger Text, Captions, and more. Based on this information, an
[Accessibility Nutrition Label](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-
accessibility/overview-of-accessibility-nutrition-labels) will appear on your
App Store product page, specific to each platform you support. If you’d like,
you can also add a URL on your App Store product page that links people to a
website with even more details.

**Custom product pages.** In addition to your default product page, you can
use [custom product pages](/app-store/custom-product-pages/) to showcase a
particular feature, content, character, or aspect of gameplay. Highlight this
content on each page with unique screenshots, app previews, and promotional
text that differ from your default product page. Share a particular page with
people by using its unique URL in your marketing efforts or Apple Ads
campaigns.

**Product page optimization.** [Test different elements](/app-store/product-
page-optimization/) of your App Store product page to understand if different
app icons, screenshots, or app preview videos result in more engagement.

[Learn about creating product pages](/app-store/product-page/)

### Availability options

**Required device capabilities.** The App Store is designed to provide users
with apps that work seamlessly with their devices‘ capabilities. Verify that
your information property list (info.plist) is compatible with any device
requirements when submitting a new app that takes advantage of the latest
technologies.

**Apps for Macs with Apple silicon.** If your Mac app requires the high
performance of Apple silicon, you can make your app available on the Mac App
Store only to Macs with an M1 chip or later. To only support Macs with Apple
silicon, your app must require a minimum OS version of macOS Monterey 12 or
later, and have never supported Intel-based Macs. In Xcode, update the
Architectures build setting for your target and specify to build ARM64 only.
Apps can add Intel support and lower the minimum OS version in an update but,
once released, they cannot return to only supporting Apple silicon.

**Universal purchase.** With universal purchase, people can discover and enjoy
your app or game across their Apple devices with a single purchase. In-App
Purchases and subscriptions can also easily be set up and shared across
platforms. Your product page will show the other platforms your app supports
along with screenshots. And you’ll be able to promote your app using a single
URL across your marketing channels.

**iPadOS and iOS apps on Mac and Apple Vision Pro.** Most iPadOS and iOS apps
can run unmodified on Apple Vision Pro and on Macs with Apple silicon, so your
app can easily extend to these platforms — with no additional work required.
By default, your compatible apps are published automatically on the App Store
for Apple Vision Pro or Mac using the metadata you’ve already provided in App
Store Connect.

[Learn about managing your app’s availability](/help/app-store-connect/manage-
your-apps-availability/manage-availability-of-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-macs-
with-apple-silicon/)

##  ![](/assets/elements/icons/app-store-s/app-store-s-96x96_2x.png)
![](/assets/elements/icons/app-store-s-dark/app-store-s-dark-96x96_2x.png)
Increase discoverability

Boost your game and app discoverability with built-in promotional features on
the App Store and App Store Connect.

### In-App Events

Promote timely content within your app or game — such as game competitions,
movie premieres, livestreamed experiences, and more — using In-App Events.
People can find In-App Events across the App Store, including on your product
page, in search results, and on the Today, Games, and Apps tabs.

[Learn about In-App Events](/app-store/in-app-events/)

![](/app-store/whats-new/images/lockup-games-medium_2x.png)

### Apple Games app

Games that are available on the App Store will automatically appear on the
Games app, including in search results, the Library tab, and the Continue
Playing section. Additionally, games that include Game Center features and In-
App Events are prominently displayed across the Games app in order to help
players discover and engage deeper with them.

[Learn about the Games app](/games-app/)

### Featuring Nominations

The App Store showcases incredible apps and games that people love across
Apple platforms, and shines a spotlight on developers from communities around
the world. Each Apple platform has a dedicated App Store to help people
discover the best apps, games, in-app content, and more. You can use Featuring
Nominations in App Store Connect to share your story with our team.

[Learn about getting featured](/help/app-store-connect/manage-featuring-
nominations/nominate-your-app-for-featuring/)

### Custom marketing assets

The App Store marketing tools and the App Store Connect app provide you with
premade assets to celebrate moments such as a launch, new version, and more.
Simply download your selected assets, then share them using your social media
or marketing channels to amplify your app or game.

[Learn about marketing assets](/app-store/promote/)

