# ![Expo Sensors icon](/static/images/packages/expo-sensors.png)Expo Sensors

[GitHub](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-54/packages/expo-
sensors)[Changelog](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-54/packages/expo-
sensors/CHANGELOG.md)[npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/expo-sensors)

Ask AI

A library that provides access to a device's accelerometer, barometer, motion,
gyroscope, light, magnetometer, and pedometer.

[GitHub](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-54/packages/expo-
sensors)[Changelog](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-54/packages/expo-
sensors/CHANGELOG.md)[npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/expo-sensors)

Ask AI

Android

iOS

Web

Bundled version:

~15.0.7

Copy

* * *

`expo-sensors` provide various APIs for accessing device sensors to measure
motion, orientation, pressure, magnetic fields, ambient light, and step count.

## Installation

Terminal

Copy

`- ``npx expo install expo-sensors`

If you are installing this in an [existing React Native app](/bare/overview),
make sure to [install `expo`](/bare/installing-expo-modules) in your project.

## Configuration in app config

You can configure `expo-sensors` using its built-in [config plugin](/config-
plugins/introduction) if you use config plugins in your project ([EAS
Build](/build/introduction) or `npx expo run:[android|ios]`). The plugin
allows you to configure various properties that cannot be set at runtime and
require building a new app binary to take effect.

### Example app.json with config plugin

app.json

Copy

    
    
    {
      "expo": {
        "plugins": [
          [
            "expo-sensors",
            {
              "motionPermission": "Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your device motion"
            }
          ]
        ]
      }
    }
    

### Configurable properties

Name| Default| Description  
---|---|---  
`motionPermission`| `"Allow $(PRODUCT_NAME) to access your device motion"`|
Only for: iOS  
A string to set the `NSMotionUsageDescription` permission message or `false`
to disable motion permissions.  
  
## API

    
    
    import * as Sensors from 'expo-sensors';
    // OR
    import {
      Accelerometer,
      Barometer,
      DeviceMotion,
      Gyroscope,
      LightSensor,
      Magnetometer,
      MagnetometerUncalibrated,
      Pedometer,
    } from 'expo-sensors';
    

## Permissions

### Android

Starting in Android 12 (API level 31), the system has a 200Hz limit for each
sensor updates.

If you need an update interval of less than 200Hz, you must add the following
permissions to your app.json inside the
[`expo.android.permissions`](/versions/latest/config/app#permissions) array.

Android Permission| Description  
---|---  
`HIGH_SAMPLING_RATE_SENSORS`| Allows an app to access sensor data with a
sampling rate greater than 200 Hz.  
  
Are you using this library in an existing React Native app?

If you're not using Continuous Native Generation ([CNG](/workflow/continuous-
native-generation)) or you're using native android project manually, add
`HIGH_SAMPLING_RATE_SENSORS` permission to your project's
android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml:

    
    
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.HIGH_SAMPLING_RATE_SENSORS" />
    

### iOS

The following usage description keys are used by this library:

Info.plist Key| Description  
---|---  
`NSMotionUsageDescription`| A message that tells the user why the app is
requesting access to the deviceâ€™s motion data.  
  
## Available sensors

For more information, see the documentation for the sensor you are interested
in:

[AccelerometerMeasures device acceleration on all
platforms.](/versions/latest/sdk/accelerometer) [BarometerMeasures pressure on
Android and iOS platforms.](/versions/latest/sdk/barometer)
[DeviceMotionMeasures device motion on all
platforms.](/versions/latest/sdk/devicemotion) [GyroscopeMeasures device
rotation on all platforms.](/versions/latest/sdk/gyroscope)
[MagnetometerMeasures magnetic fields on Android and iOS
platforms.](/versions/latest/sdk/magnetometer) [LightSensorMeasures ambient
light on Android platform.](/versions/latest/sdk/light-sensor)
[PedometerMeasures steps count on Android and iOS
platforms.](/versions/latest/sdk/pedometer)

