This is documentation for React Native **0.80** , which is no longer in active
development.

For up-to-date documentation, see the **[latest version](/docs/environment-
setup)** (0.81).

Version: 0.80

# Get Started with React Native

**React Native allows developers who know React to create native apps.** At
the same time, native developers can use React Native to gain parity between
native platforms by writing common features once.

We believe that the best way to experience React Native is through a
**Framework** , a toolbox with all the necessary APIs to let you build
production ready apps.

You can also use React Native without a Framework, however we’ve found that
most developers benefit from using a React Native Framework like
[Expo](https://expo.dev). Expo provides features like file-based routing,
high-quality universal libraries, and the ability to write plugins that modify
native code without having to manage native files.

Can I use React Native without a Framework?

Yes. You can use React Native without a Framework. **However, if you’re
building a new app with React Native, we recommend using a Framework.**

In short, you’ll be able to spend time writing your app instead of writing an
entire Framework yourself in addition to your app.

The React Native community has spent years refining approaches to navigation,
accessing native APIs, dealing with native dependencies, and more. Most apps
need these core features. A React Native Framework provides them from the
start of your app.

Without a Framework, you’ll either have to write your own solutions to
implement core features, or you’ll have to piece together a collection of pre-
existing libraries to create a skeleton of a Framework. This takes real work,
both when starting your app, then later when maintaining it.

If your app has unusual constraints that are not served well by a Framework,
or you prefer to solve these problems yourself, you can make a React Native
app without a Framework using Android Studio, Xcode. If you’re interested in
this path, learn how to [set up your environment](/docs/0.80/set-up-your-
environment) and how to [get started without a framework](/docs/0.80/getting-
started-without-a-framework).

## Start a new React Native project with Expo​

**Platform support**

Android

iOS

TV

Web

Expo is a production-grade React Native Framework. Expo provides developer
tooling that makes developing apps easier, such as file-based routing, a
standard library of native modules, and much more.

Expo's Framework is free and open source, with an active community on
[GitHub](https://github.com/expo) and [Discord](https://chat.expo.dev). The
Expo team works in close collaboration with the React Native team at Meta to
bring the latest React Native features to the Expo SDK.

The team at Expo also provides Expo Application Services (EAS), an optional
set of services that complements Expo, the Framework, in each step of the
development process.

To create a new Expo project, run the following in your terminal:

shell

    
    
    npx create-expo-app@latest  
    

Once you’ve created your app, check out the rest of Expo’s getting started
guide to start developing your app.

[Continue with Expo](https://docs.expo.dev/get-started/set-up-your-
environment)

[Edit page for next release](https://github.com/facebook/react-native-
website/edit/main/docs/getting-started.md)[Edit page for 0.80
release](https://github.com/facebook/react-native-
website/edit/main/website/versioned_docs/version-0.80/getting-started.md)

Last updated on **Jun 17, 2025**

[ PreviousMore Resources](/docs/0.80/more-resources)[NextSet Up Your
Environment](/docs/0.80/set-up-your-environment)

