# Agreements and Guidelines for Apple Developers

In order to use Apple’s developer tools and services, or distribute software
on Apple platforms, you’ll need to adhere to the applicable terms in the
following agreements and guidelines. Be certain to read the relevant terms
carefully as you design and develop your software.

## Program license agreements

Please note that the English language version of the agreements you accept in
your developer account are binding and the most up to date. Any other language
translations of select agreements that we may provide are for your
convenience.

### Apple Developer Program License Agreement

Terms and conditions that govern membership in the Apple Developer Program and
the distribution of free apps.

[View agreement](/support/terms/apple-developer-program-license-agreement/)

[View agreement (PDF)](/support/downloads/terms/apple-developer-program/Apple-
Developer-Program-License-Agreement-20250609-English.pdf) [View
translations]()

### Paid Applications Agreement (Schedules 2 and 3 of the Apple Developer
Program License Agreement)

A schedule to the Apple Developer Program License Agreement. Acceptance of the
latest version in [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/) is
required to offer paid apps and in-app purchases.

[View agreement](/programs/apple-developer-program-license-agreement/#S2)

[View agreement
(PDF)](/support/downloads/terms/schedules/Schedule-2-and-3-20240610-English.pdf)
[View translations]()

[View exhibits (PDF)](/support/downloads/terms/exhibits/Exhibits-to-
Schedule-2-and-3-20250821-English.pdf) [View translations]()

### Apple Developer Enterprise Program License Agreement

Terms and conditions that govern membership in the Apple Developer Enterprise
Program.

[View agreement](/support/downloads/terms/apple-developer-enterprise-
program/Apple-Developer-Enterprise-Program-License-
Agreement-20250609-English.pdf) [View translations]()

## Terms of use agreements

### Apple Developer Agreement

Terms and conditions that govern the use of the Apple Developer website, beta
software, events, and more.

[View agreement](/support/downloads/terms/apple-developer-agreement/Apple-
Developer-Agreement-20250318-English.pdf) [View translations]()

### Xcode and Apple SDKs Agreement

Terms and conditions that govern the use of Xcode developer tools and software
development kits (SDKs).

[View agreement](https://www.apple.com/legal/sla/docs/xcode.pdf)

### App Store Connect Terms of Service

Terms and conditions that govern the use of the App Store Connect website and
services used to distribute apps on the App Store.

[View
agreement](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/WebObjects/iTunesConnect.woa/wa/termsOfService/)

### TestFlight Terms and Conditions

Terms and conditions that govern the use of TestFlight, including beta testing
of any prerelease applications downloaded through TestFlight.

[View agreement](https://www.apple.com/legal/internet-
services/itunes/testflight/)

### Apple Developer Forums Agreement

Terms and conditions that govern participation in one or more discussion
forums made available by Apple to Apple developers.

[View agreement](/support/downloads/terms/apple-developer-forums/Apple-
Developer-Forums-Agreement-20200618-English.pdf)

## Guidelines

### App Review Guidelines

A set of technical, content, and design criteria we use to review all apps and
app updates submitted to the App Store in an effort to determine whether they
are reliable, perform as expected, respect user privacy, and are free of
objectionable content.

[View guidelines](/app-store/review/guidelines/) [View translations]()

### Human Interface Guidelines

Guidance and UI resources for designing great apps that integrate seamlessly
with Apple platforms.

[View guidelines](/design/human-interface-guidelines/) [View translations]()

### App Store Marketing Resources and Identity Guidelines

Guidance on including App Store badges, photography and video, Apple product
images, and more in your marketing communications.

[View guidelines](/app-store/marketing/guidelines/) [View translations]()

### Guidelines for Using Apple Trademarks and Copyrights

Guidance on using Apple trademarks, service marks, or images in your marketing
and reference materials, websites, products, and packaging.

[View guidelines](http://www.apple.com/legal/intellectual-
property/guidelinesfor3rdparties.html)

[View licensing and trademarks](/licensing-trademarks/)

### App Store Promo Artwork Guidelines

Guidance on preparing your promotional artwork if your app is considered for
featuring by the App Store.

[View guidelines](https://help.apple.com/itc/appspromoart/)

### Apple Pay Marketing Guidelines

Guidance on letting your customers know that you support Apple Pay.

[View guidelines](/apple-pay/marketing/)

### Acceptable Use Guidelines for Apple Pay on the Web

Guidance on incorporating Apple Pay into your website.

[View guidelines](/apple-pay/acceptable-use-guidelines-for-websites/)

### Add to Apple Wallet Guidelines

Guidance on including “Add to Apple Wallet” buttons in your apps, web pages,
and emails, as well as using the badge on printed materials.

[View guidelines](/wallet/add-to-apple-wallet-guidelines/)

