![](/programs/enterprise/images/lockup-hero-large_2x.png)

# Apple Developer Enterprise Program

The Apple Developer Enterprise Program allows large organizations to develop
and deploy proprietary, internal-use apps to their employees. This program is
for specific use cases that require private distribution directly to employees
using secure internal systems or through a Mobile Device Management solution.

## Eligibility

The Apple Developer Enterprise Program is only for the internal use and
distribution of proprietary apps in specific use cases that are not adequately
addressed with public apps on the App Store, custom apps through Apple
Business Manager or Ad Hoc distribution, or beta testing through TestFlight.
Your proprietary app must be developed by you for use on Apple platforms.

In addition, the following eligibility requirements apply. Your organization
must:

  * Have 100 or more employees.
  * Be a legal entity. We do not accept DBAs, fictitious businesses, trade names, or branches.
  * Use the program only to create proprietary, in-house apps for internal use, and to distribute these apps privately and securely to employees within the organization.
  * Have systems in place to ensure only employees can download your internal-use apps, and to protect membership credentials and assets.
  * Participate in and pass Apple’s verification interview and continuous evaluation process.

## Applying

### Application

As the person applying to the Apple Developer Enterprise Program on behalf of
your organization, you must have the legal authority to bind your organization
to legal agreements. You must be the organization’s owner/founder, executive
team member, senior project lead, or have legal authority granted to you by a
senior employee. To start your application, sign in with your Apple Account
with [two-factor authentication](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204915/)
turned on. If you’re already enrolled in the Apple Developer Program for
distributing apps on the App Store, or have an iTunes Connect account for
distributing another media type (music, TV, movies, or books), you will need
to use a different Apple Account.

### Verification

Verification is conducted to authenticate your organization’s information, to
validate your intended use of the program, and to ensure that the App Store,
Apple Business Manager, Ad Hoc distribution, or TestFlight would not
adequately meet your needs. Your organization must have a D-U-N-S Number,
which is a unique nine-digit number assigned by Dun & Bradstreet and widely
used as a standard business identifier. You can [check to see](/support/D-U-
N-S/) if your organization already has a D-U-N-S Number and request one if
necessary. They are free in most jurisdictions. Your organization must also
have a publicly available website with a domain name that’s associated with
your organization. In addition, we may contact your organization to verify
other details and continue to evaluate your use of the program. If you choose
to renew your membership, your organization will be verified again. Apple
reserves the right to reject your application at its sole discretion.

### Agreement and Payment

If your organization is approved for membership in the Apple Developer
Enterprise Program, you will receive the enterprise program license agreement
for review and acceptance. The Apple Developer Enterprise Program is 299 USD
per membership year or in local currency where available.

## Getting Started

The Apple Developer Program allows you to distribute public apps on the App
Store, beta versions of apps through TestFlight, and custom apps to specific
businesses, including your organization, through Apple Business Manager or Ad
Hoc distribution. The Apple Developer Enterprise Program is only for specific
use cases that are not addressed with these options. Before applying, use the
drop down below to find out which program is best for you.

### What types of apps will you distribute?

Select an option Apps for the public (including non-custom business apps)
Custom apps for specific business clients Proprietary apps for internal use
within my organization

**Please enroll in the Apple Developer Program instead.** You’ll get access to
resources for public app distribution on the App Store, distribution through
Apple Business Manager, Ad Hoc distribution, and beta testing through
TestFlight.

[Learn about the Apple Developer Program](/programs/)

**Please enroll in the Apple Developer Program instead.** You’ll get access to
resources for custom app distribution through Apple Business Manager, Ad Hoc
distribution, beta testing through TestFlight, and public app distribution.
Your customer can use Apple Business Manager or redemption codes to privately
distribute custom apps. (Note: If you’re an organization purchasing an app
that has been customized for you, simply create an account to access the app
on Apple Business Manager. You do not need to join a developer program.)

[Learn about the Apple Developer Program](/programs/)

**Please learn about the Apple Developer Program first.** The Apple Developer
Program is the right option for most organizations that want to distribute
proprietary, internal-use apps. It allows you to use Apple Business Manager,
Ad Hoc distribution, or redemption codes to privately distribute custom apps
to employees, and TestFlight to test beta versions of your apps.

The Apple Developer Enterprise Program is only for specific use cases that
cannot be addressed using these methods. Before applying for the Apple
Developer Enterprise Program, learn more about the [Apple Developer
Program](/programs/) to see if it addresses your use case. If not, you can
start your application.

[Start your application](/enroll/enterprise/)

