# _Apple Security Research Device Program_

iPhone is the world's most secure consumer mobile device, which can make it
challenging for even skilled security researchers to get started. We created
the Apple Security Research Device Program to help new and experienced
researchers accelerate their work with iOS.  
  

**Now accepting applications through October 31, 2025.  
  
Apply below.**

## How it works.

The Security Research Device (SRD) is a specially fused iPhone that allows you
to perform iOS security research without having to bypass its security
features. You also benefit from access to software previews, security beta
projects, the SRD research community, and special tooling to augment research
and vulnerability discovery. Shell access is available, and you can run any
tools, choose your own entitlements, and even customize the kernel.  
  
All iOS and iPhone components are eligible for SRD Program research, except
Apple Pay and third-party apps. Using the SRD allows you to confidently report
all your findings to Apple without the risk of losing access to the inner
layers of iOS security. Plus, any vulnerabilities that you discover with the
SRD are automatically considered for [Apple Security Bounty](/bounty/) â€”
including bonus awards for preview and beta software programs.

![Code terminal within an iPhone](/assets/image/device/phone.png)

## Guidelines.

The SRD is intended for use in a controlled setting for security research
only. If your application is approved, we will provide you an SRD as a
12-month renewable loan. During this time, the device remains the property of
Apple.

The SRD isn't meant for personal use or daily carry, and must remain on the
premises of program participants at all times. Access to and use of the SRD
must be limited to people authorized by Apple.

If you use the SRD to find, test, validate, verify, or confirm a
vulnerability, you must promptly [report it to us](/bounty/) and, if the bug
is in third-party code, to the appropriate third party.

Our ultimate goal is to protect users, so if you find a vulnerability without
using the SRD for any aspect of your work, we'd still like to receive your
report. We review all research submitted to us and consider all eligible
reports for rewards through [Apple Security Bounty](/bounty/).

## Eligibility.

Participation in the Security Research Device Program is subject to review of
your application.

### To be eligible for the Security Research Device program, you must:

  * Have a proven track record of success in finding security issues on Apple platforms, or other modern operating systems and platforms.

  * Be based in an eligible country or region.*
  * Be the legal age of majority in the jurisdiction in which you reside (18 years of age in many countries).
  * Not be employed by Apple currently or in the last 12 months.

## How to apply for a Security Research Device.

A limited number of Apple Security Research Devices are available each year.  
  
  
To apply, sign in with your Apple Account. To enroll as a company, university,
or other type of organization, you must be authorized to act on your
organization's behalf and provide the names of everyone who will need access
to an SRD. If approved by Apple, each person will have to acknowledge their
responsibilities.  

[Apply for a Security Research Device.](https://security.apple.com/research-
device/apply)  
  
**This year's application period ends October 31, 2025.**

