### [App Store Connect Help ](/help/app-store-connect/)

[App Store Connect](/help/app-store-connect/) / Manage European Union Digital
Services Act trader requirements

Filter ⌘K

  * [
  * Release notes ](/help/app-store-connect/release-notes/)
  * Get started

[

    * App Store Connect homepage ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-homepage) [
    * App Store Connect workflow ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-workflow) [
    * App Store Connect for iPhone and iPad ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-for-iphone-and-ipad) [
    * App Store Connect API ](/help/app-store-connect/get-started/app-store-connect-api)
  * Manage your team

[

    * Overview of accounts and roles ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/overview-of-accounts-and-roles) [
    * Add and edit users ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/add-and-edit-users) [
    * Edit access to apps ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/edit-access-to-apps) [
    * View and edit your profile ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/view-and-edit-your-profile) [
    * Manage webhooks ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-team/manage-webhooks)
  * Create an app record

[

    * Add a new app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-a-new-app) [
    * Set your developer name ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/set-your-developer-name) [
    * View and edit app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/view-and-edit-app-information) [
    * Add watchOS app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-watchos-app-information) [
    * Add iMessage app information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-imessage-app-information) [
    * Add platforms ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/add-platforms) [
    * Create and submit app bundles ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/create-and-submit-app-bundles) [
    * Edit app bundle information ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/edit-app-bundle-information) [
    * Remove an app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/remove-an-app) [
    * Edit access to an app ](/help/app-store-connect/create-an-app-record/edit-access-to-an-app)
  * Manage builds

[

    * Upload builds ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/upload-builds) [
    * View builds and metadata ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/view-builds-and-metadata) [
    * Choose a build to submit ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-builds/choose-a-build-to-submit)
  * Manage asset packs

[

    * Overview of Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-asset-packs/overview-of-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Upload Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-asset-packs/upload-apple-hosted-asset-packs)
  * Manage app information

[

    * Set an app age rating ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-an-app-age-rating) [
    * Manage app tags ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/manage-app-tags) [
    * Set the app motion information for Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-the-app-motion-information-for-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Provide a custom license agreement ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/provide-a-custom-license-agreement) [
    * Localize app information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/localize-app-information) [
    * Manage app privacy ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/manage-app-privacy) [
    * Set a tax category ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-a-tax-category) [
    * Overview of export compliance ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/overview-of-export-compliance) [
    * Determine and upload app encryption documentation ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/determine-and-upload-app-encryption-documentation) [
    * Add an app icon ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/add-an-app-icon) [
    * Upload app previews and screenshots ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/upload-app-previews-and-screenshots) [
    * Set an app preview poster frame ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/set-an-app-preview-poster-frame) [
    * Remove app previews or screenshots ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-information/remove-app-previews-or-screenshots)
  * Manage app accessibility

[

    * Overview of Accessibility Nutrition Labels ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/overview-of-accessibility-nutrition-labels) [
    * VoiceOver evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/voiceover-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Voice Control evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/voice-control-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Larger Text evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/larger-text-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Dark Interface evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/dark-interface-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Differentiate Without Color Alone evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/differentiate-without-color-alone-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Sufficient Contrast evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/sufficient-contrast-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Reduced Motion evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/reduced-motion-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Captions evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/captions-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Audio Descriptions evaluation criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/audio-descriptions-evaluation-criteria) [
    * Manage Accessibility Nutrition Labels ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-accessibility/manage-accessibility-nutrition-labels)
  * Test a beta version

[

    * TestFlight Overview ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/testflight-overview) [
    * Provide test information ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/provide-test-information) [
    * Add internal testers ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/add-internal-testers) [
    * Invite external testers ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/invite-external-testers) [
    * View and manage tester information ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-and-manage-tester-information) [
    * View tester feedback ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-tester-feedback) [
    * Add testers to builds ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/add-testers-to-builds) [
    * View build status and metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/view-build-status-and-metrics) [
    * Stop testing a build ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/stop-testing-a-build) [
    * Provide export compliance information for beta builds ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/provide-export-compliance-information-for-beta-builds) [
    * Test Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Remove testers from a group ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/remove-testers-from-a-group) [
    * Delete testers from TestFlight ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/delete-testers-from-testflight) [
    * Test an App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-an-app-clip-experience) [
    * Test iPhone and iPad apps on Macs with Apple silicon ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-macs-with-apple-silicon) [
    * Test iPhone and iPad apps on Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/test-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Testing subscriptions and in-app purchases in TestFlight ](/help/app-store-connect/test-a-beta-version/testing-subscriptions-and-in-app-purchases-in-testflight)
  * Manage submissions to App Review

[

    * Overview of submitting for review ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/overview-of-submitting-for-review) [
    * Submit an app ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-app) [
    * Submit an in-app purchase ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-in-app-purchase) [
    * Submit Apple-hosted asset packs ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-apple-hosted-asset-packs) [
    * Submit a custom product page ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-a-custom-product-page) [
    * Submit an In-App Event ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/submit-an-in-app-event) [
    * Remove a submission from review ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/remove-a-submission-from-review) [
    * Reply to App Review messages ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/reply-to-app-review-messages) [
    * Manage a submission with unresolved issues ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/manage-a-submission-with-unresolved-issues) [
    * Upload a geographic coverage file ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-submissions-to-app-review/upload-a-geographic-coverage-file)
  * Manage your app's availability

[

    * Overview of publishing your app on the App Store ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/overview-of-publishing-your-app-on-the-app-store) [
    * Manage availability for your app on the App Store ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-for-your-app-on-the-app-store) [
    * Set distribution methods ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/set-distribution-methods) [
    * Publish for pre-order ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/publish-for-pre-order) [
    * Select an App Store version release option ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/select-an-app-store-version-release-option) [
    * Manage availability of iPhone and iPad apps on Macs with Apple silicon ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-of-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-macs-with-apple-silicon) [
    * Manage availability of iPhone and iPad apps on Apple Vision Pro ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/manage-availability-of-iphone-and-ipad-apps-on-apple-vision-pro) [
    * Make a version unavailable for download ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/make-a-version-unavailable-for-download) [
    * View app status history ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-your-apps-availability/view-app-status-history)
  * Manage app pricing

[

    * Set a price ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/set-a-price) [
    * Schedule price changes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-pricing/schedule-price-changes)
  * Update your app

[

    * Create a new version ](/help/app-store-connect/update-your-app/create-a-new-version) [
    * Release a version update in phases ](/help/app-store-connect/update-your-app/release-a-version-update-in-phases)
  * Manage featuring nominations

[

    * Nominate your app for featuring ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-featuring-nominations/nominate-your-app-for-featuring)
  * Monitor ratings and reviews

[

    * Ratings and reviews overview ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/ratings-and-reviews-overview) [
    * View ratings and reviews ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/view-ratings-and-reviews) [
    * Respond to reviews ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/respond-to-reviews) [
    * Reset an app overview rating ](/help/app-store-connect/monitor-ratings-and-reviews/reset-an-app-overview-rating)
  * Measure app performance

[

    * Overview of reporting tools ](/help/app-store-connect/measure-app-performance/overview-of-reporting-tools) [
    * Differences in reporting tools ](/help/app-store-connect/measure-app-performance/differences-in-reporting-tools)
  * View App Analytics

[

    * View app metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-app-metrics) [
    * View App Clip metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-app-clip-metrics) [
    * View In-App Event metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-in-app-event-metrics) [
    * View acquisition sources ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-acquisition-sources) [
    * Manage campaigns ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/manage-campaigns) [
    * Measure app retention ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/measure-app-retention) [
    * View product page optimization results ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-product-page-optimization-results) [
    * View peer group benchmarks ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/view-peer-group-benchmarks) [
    * Download App Analytics Reports ](/help/app-store-connect/view-app-analytics/download-app-analytics-reports)
  * View Sales and Trends

[

    * View units, proceeds, sales, and pre-orders ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/view-units-proceeds-sales-and-pre-orders) [
    * View subscription data ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/view-subscription-data) [
    * Download and view reports ](/help/app-store-connect/view-sales-and-trends/download-and-view-reports)
  * Transfer an app

[

    * Overview of app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/overview-of-app-transfer) [
    * App transfer criteria ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/app-transfer-criteria) [
    * Initiate an app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/initiate-an-app-transfer) [
    * Accept an app transfer ](/help/app-store-connect/transfer-an-app/accept-an-app-transfer)
  * Manage agreements

[

    * Sign and update agreements ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-agreements/sign-and-update-agreements) [
    * View agreements status ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-agreements/view-agreements-status)
  * Manage banking information

[

    * Enter banking information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-banking-information/enter-banking-information)
  * Manage tax information

[

    * Provide tax information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information) [
    * Provide tax information for business-to-business status ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-business-to-business-status) [
    * Provide tax information for alternative payment options ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-alternative-payment-options) [
    * Provide tax information for Core Technology Fee ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/provide-tax-information-for-core-technology-fee) [
    * Manage invoices and other tax documents ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-tax-information/manage-invoices-and-other-tax-documents)
  * Manage compliance information

[

    * Manage European Union Digital Services Act trader requirements ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/manage-european-union-digital-services-act-trader-requirements) [
    * View Mainland China compliance information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/view-mainland-china-compliance-information) [
    * Manage Korea compliance information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/manage-korea-compliance-information)
  * Getting paid

[

    * Overview of receiving payments ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/overview-of-receiving-payments) [
    * View payments and proceeds ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/view-payments-and-proceeds) [
    * Download financial reports ](/help/app-store-connect/getting-paid/download-financial-reports)
  * Making payments to Apple

[

    * Overview of making payments to Apple ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/overview-of-making-payments-to-apple) [
    * Update your account for invoicing requirements ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/update-your-account-for-invoicing-requirements) [
    * Understanding taxes ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/understanding-taxes) [
    * Invoice fields ](/help/app-store-connect/making-payments-to-apple/invoice-fields)
  * Understanding the Core Technology Fee

[

    * Core Technology Fee overview ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/core-technology-fee-overview) [
    * Estimate fees for alternative business terms ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/estimate-fees-for-alternative-business-terms) [
    * Measure your first annual installs ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/measure-your-first-annual-installs) [
    * Core Technology Fee report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/understanding-the-core-technology-fee/core-technology-fee-report-fields)
  * Offer promo codes

[

    * Request and manage promo codes ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-promo-codes/request-and-manage-promo-codes)
  * Offer App Clip experiences

[

    * Overview of App Clips ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/overview-of-app-clips) [
    * Offer a default App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/offer-a-default-app-clip-experience) [
    * Offer an advanced App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/offer-an-advanced-app-clip-experience) [
    * Generate App Clip codes ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/generate-app-clip-codes) [
    * Manage an App Clip experience ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/manage-an-app-clip-experience) [
    * View domain URL status ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-app-clip-experiences/view-domain-url-status)
  * Create custom product pages

[

    * Configure multiple product page versions ](/help/app-store-connect/create-custom-product-pages/configure-multiple-product-page-versions)
  * Create product page optimization tests

[

    * Overview of product page optimization ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/overview-of-product-page-optimization) [
    * Create a test ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/create-a-test) [
    * Configure test treatments ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/configure-test-treatments) [
    * Run a test ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/run-a-test) [
    * Apply a test treatment to your product page ](/help/app-store-connect/create-product-page-optimization-tests/apply-a-test-treatment-to-your-product-page)
  * Offer In-App Events

[

    * Overview of In-App Events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/overview-of-in-app-events) [
    * Offer In-App Events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/offer-in-app-events) [
    * Manage events ](/help/app-store-connect/offer-in-app-events/manage-events)
  * Configure in-app purchase settings

[

    * Overview for configuring in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/overview-for-configuring-in-app-purchases) [
    * Generate keys for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/generate-keys-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Generate a shared secret to verify receipts ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/generate-a-shared-secret-to-verify-receipts) [
    * Enter server URLs for App Store Server Notifications ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/enter-server-urls-for-app-store-server-notifications) [
    * Set a tax category for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/set-a-tax-category-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Turn on Family Sharing for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/turn-on-family-sharing-for-in-app-purchases) [
    * Promote in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-in-app-purchase-settings/promote-in-app-purchases)
  * Manage in-app purchases

[

    * Create consumable or non-consumable in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/create-consumable-or-non-consumable-in-app-purchases) [
    * Create non-renewing subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/create-non-renewing-subscriptions) [
    * View and edit in-app purchase information ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/view-and-edit-in-app-purchase-information) [
    * Set a price for an in-app purchase ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/set-a-price-for-an-in-app-purchase) [
    * Schedule price changes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/schedule-price-changes) [
    * Set availability for in-app purchases ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-in-app-purchases/set-availability-for-in-app-purchases)
  * Manage subscriptions

[

    * Offer auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/offer-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set availability for an auto-renewable subscription ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-availability-for-an-auto-renewable-subscription) [
    * Manage pricing for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/manage-pricing-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up introductory offers for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-introductory-offers-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up promotional offers for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-promotional-offers-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions) [
    * Set up offer codes ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-offer-codes) [
    * Set up win-back offers ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/set-up-win-back-offers) [
    * Manage Streamlined Purchasing ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/manage-streamlined-purchasing) [
    * Enable billing grace period for auto-renewable subscriptions ](/help/app-store-connect/manage-subscriptions/enable-billing-grace-period-for-auto-renewable-subscriptions)
  * Test in-app purchases

[

    * Overview of testing in sandbox ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/overview-of-testing-in-sandbox) [
    * Create Sandbox Apple Account ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/create-a-sandbox-apple-account) [
    * Manage Sandbox Apple Account settings ](/help/app-store-connect/test-in-app-purchases/manage-sandbox-apple-account-settings)
  * Configure Game Center

[

    * Overview of Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-game-center) [
    * Manage leaderboards ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-leaderboards) [
    * Manage leaderboard sets ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-leaderboard-sets) [
    * Manage achievements ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-achievements) [
    * Manage challenges ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-challenges) [
    * Manage activities ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-activities) [
    * Overview of Game Center groups ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-game-center-groups) [
    * Manage groups ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-groups) [
    * Overview of testing Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/overview-of-testing-game-center) [
    * Remove leaderboard test data ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/remove-leaderboard-test-data) [
    * Manage an app version for Game Center ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-an-app-version-for-game-center) [
    * Add Game Center components to an app version ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/add-game-center-components-to-an-app-version) [
    * Add multiplayer compatibility ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/add-multiplayer-compatibility) [
    * Manage scores and players ](/help/app-store-connect/configure-game-center/manage-scores-and-players)
  * Managing alternative distribution

[

    * Manage distribution on an alternative app marketplace ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/manage-distribution-on-an-alternative-app-marketplace) [
    * Get an alternative distribution package ID ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/get-an-alternative-distribution-package-id) [
    * Submit for Notarization ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/submit-for-notarization) [
    * Create a marketplace app ](/help/app-store-connect/managing-alternative-distribution/create-a-marketplace-app)
  * Reference

[

    * App information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-information) [
    * Platform version information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/platform-version-information) [
    * App privacy ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-privacy) [
    * Age ratings values and definitions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/age-ratings-values-and-definitions) [
    * Provide app motion information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/provide-app-motion-information) [
    * Required, localizable, and editable properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/required-localizable-and-editable-properties) [
    * App bundle information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-bundle-information) [
    * App pricing and availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-pricing-and-availability) [
    * App and submission statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-and-submission-statuses) [
    * App build statuses  ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-build-statuses) [
    * Build upload statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/build-upload-statuses) [
    * Apple-hosted asset pack statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-hosted-asset-pack-statuses) [
    * App Store localizations ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-store-localizations) [
    * App Store pricing and availability start times by country or region ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-store-pricing-and-availability-start-times-by-country-or-region) [
    * App Sandbox information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-sandbox-information) [
    * Maximum build file sizes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/maximum-build-file-sizes) [
    * Apple-hosted asset pack size limits ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-hosted-asset-pack-size-limits) [
    * On-demand resources size limits ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/on-demand-resources-size-limits) [
    * Compliance review ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/compliance-review) [
    * Export compliance documentation for encryption ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/export-compliance-documentation-for-encryption) [
    * TestFlight tester information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/testflight-tester-information) [
    * Beta tester feedback ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/beta-tester-feedback) [
    * App preview specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-preview-specifications) [
    * Screenshot specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/screenshot-specifications) [
    * Role permissions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/role-permissions) [
    * User notifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/user-notifications) [
    * Generate catalog reports ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/generate-catalog-reports) [
    * App catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-catalog-report) [
    * Game Center achievement catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-center-achievement-catalog-report) [
    * Game Center leaderboard catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-center-leaderboard-catalog-report) [
    * In-app purchases catalog report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchases-catalog-report) [
    * In-app purchase types ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-types) [
    * In-app purchase information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-information) [
    * Auto-renewable subscription information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/auto-renewable-subscription-information) [
    * In-app purchase and subscriptions pricing and availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-and-subscriptions-pricing-and-availability) [
    * In-app purchase statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-statuses) [
    * In-app purchase localization statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-purchase-localization-statuses) [
    * Auto-renewable subscription price increase thresholds ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/auto-renewable-subscription-price-increase-thresholds) [
    * Consent for subscription offer conversions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/consent-for-subscription-offer-conversions) [
    * In-App Event statuses ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-statuses) [
    * In-App Event badges ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-badges) [
    * In-App Event media specifications ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-media-and-audio-specifications) [
    * Nominations template ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/nominations-template) [
    * Leaderboards ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/leaderboards) [
    * Achievements ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/achievements) [
    * Challenges ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/challenges) [
    * Game activities ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/game-activities) [
    * Group properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/group-properties) [
    * App version properties ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-version-properties) [
    * App metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-metrics) [
    * App Clip metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-clip-metrics) [
    * In-App Event metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/in-app-event-metrics) [
    * Performance metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/performance-metrics) [
    * App analytics filters and dimensions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-analytics-filters-and-dimensions) [
    * Product page optimization metrics ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/product-page-optimization-metrics) [
    * Payment information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/payment-information) [
    * Financial report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/financial-report-fields) [
    * Transaction tax report fields ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/transaction-tax-report-fields) [
    * Apple legal entities ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/apple-legal-entities) [
    * Currency codes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/currency-codes) [
    * Financial report regions and currencies ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/financial-report-regions-and-currencies) [
    * Minimum payment threshold ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/minimum-payment-threshold) [
    * Summary Sales Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/summary-sales-report) [
    * Sales Events Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-events-report) [
    * Pre-Order Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/pre-order-report) [
    * Subscription Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-report) [
    * Subscription Event Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-event-report) [
    * Subscriber Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscriber-report) [
    * Subscription Offer Redemption Report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-offer-redemption-report) [
    * Win-back eligibility report ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/win-back-eligibility-report) [
    * Report file names ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/report-file-names) [
    * Subscription events ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/subscription-events) [
    * Promotional codes ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/promotional-codes) [
    * Product type identifiers ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/product-type-identifiers) [
    * Cancellation reasons ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/cancellation-reasons) [
    * Sales and Trends metrics and dimensions ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-and-trends-metrics-and-dimensions) [
    * Sales and Trends reports availability ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/sales-and-trends-reports-availability) [
    * Banking information ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/banking-information) [
    * Store Services tiers ](/help/app-store-connect/reference/store-services-tiers) 

Filter ⌘K

Manage compliance information

# Manage European Union Digital Services Act trader requirements

Articles 30 and 31 of the [Digital Services Act (DSA)](https://eur-
lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=OJ:L:2022:277:FULL&from=EN)
require Apple to verify and display trader contact information for all traders
distributing apps on the App Store in the European Union (EU). This includes
an address, phone number, and email address that you provide to Apple for the
purpose of posting on your App Store product page in accordance with the DSA.
Once verified, Apple will publish this information on your App Store product
page when your app is distributed in any of the [27
territories](https://european-union.europa.eu/easy-read_en) of the EU. Even if
you don’t distribute apps in the EU, you’ll still need to declare a trader
status.

If you haven't already confirmed your trader status, next time you submit a
new app in App Store Connect you’ll be asked to disclose whether or not you’re
a trader in connection with the DSA in order to stay compliant across
territories when distributing on the App Store. You'll need to confirm your
trader status if you have at least one app on the App Store in the EU that
qualifies you as a trader. You’ll then have the option to turn off or specify
your trader status for each specific app that you distribute. If you’re not a
trader, consumers in the EU will be informed that consumer rights stemming
from applicable consumer protection laws won’t apply to contracts between you
and them.

## Trader self-assessment

You must assess whether you're a trader for EU law purposes. If you don't
distribute apps on the App Store in the EU (for example you only distribute
apps through alternative distribution, or TestFlight, or on the App Store only
outside the EU), you're not acting as a trader on the App Store. Apple can't
determine whether you're a trader.

## How to know if you’re a trader

The DSA defines a trader as “any natural person, or any legal person
irrespective of whether privately or publicly owned, who is acting, including
through any person acting in his or her name or on his or her behalf, for
purposes relating to his or her trade, business, craft or profession.”

The European Commission (EC) has issued a [Notice](https://eur-
lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52021XC1229\(05\)) on what
constitutes a trader (See Section 2.2. “Concept of Trader"), though it is not
specific to digital commerce. The EC has also published
[Guidance](https://commission.europa.eu/document/download/55e73447-8c21-4728-a42b-05bd030f7627_en?filename=Legal%20brief%203.pdf)
in the digital commerce context, from the perspective of when an ”influencer“
may be considered a trader.

To determine if you're a trader, you should consider a range of non-exhaustive
and non-exclusive factors (see those listed on page 2 in the EC’s Guidance),
which may include:

  * Whether you make revenue as a result of your app, for example if your app includes in-app purchases, or if it's a paid or ad-sponsored app — especially if you're transacting in large volumes;

  * Whether you engage in commercial practices towards consumers, including advertising, or promoting products or services;

  * Whether you're registered for VAT purposes; and

  * Whether you develop your app in connection with your trade, business, craft, or profession—meaning that you’re acting in a professional/business capacity. You're unlikely to be a trader for EU law purposes if you're acting “for purposes which are outside your trade, business, craft, or profession.” For example, if you're a hobbyist and you developed your app with no intention of commercializing it, you may not be considered a trader.

Regardless of whether you’re an individual developer or organization, if you
have a legal status associated with a business activity, that would suggest
you may be a trader.

The material contained herein is informational, general in nature, and does
not constitute legal advice. If you're uncertain about your status as a
trader, consult with your legal advisor.

## Information you need to provide if you're a trader

The information you need to provide depends on whether you’re enrolled in the
Apple Developer Program as an individual or organization.

**Organizations:** The address associated with your D-U-N-S Number will
automatically display. You’ll need to enter the following for display on your
App Store product pages:

  * Phone number

  * Email address

This information is for display purposes only and won’t impact the information
associated with your Apple Developer Program membership. If you need to update
your physical address, [contact us](/contact/).

**Individuals:** You’ll need to enter the following for display on your App
Store product pages:

  * Address or P.O. Box

  * Phone number

  * Email address

This information is for display purposes only and won’t impact the information
associated with your Apple Developer Program membership.

**All traders:** You’ll need to provide payment account details, if you
haven’t already entered them in App Store Connect. You'll also be asked to
certify that you only offer products or services that comply with the
applicable rules of EU law.

![](/help/app-store-connect/manage-compliance-information/manage-european-
union-digital-services-act-trader-requirements/screen-dsa-expanded-
large_2x.png)

### Enter EU Digital Services Act compliance information

**Required role:** Account Holder or Admin. [View role
permissions.](/help/app-store-connect/reference/role-permissions)

  1. In the homepage, click Business.

  2. On the Agreements tab, scroll down to the Compliance section.

  3. Next to Digital Services Act, click Complete Compliance Requirements.

  4. Select from the following options:

     1. “This is a trader account.” You’ll need to enter contact information for display on your App Store product pages. Continue to step 5.

**Note:** You’ll still have the option to turn off your trader status for
specific apps later.

     2. “This is not a trader account.” You won’t need to provide any contact information. Click Done.

  5. Enter or confirm the required contact information and click Next.

  6. Validate the email address you provided using two-factor authentication. Once you’re done, you’ll automatically be directed to the next step.

  7. Validate the phone number you provided on the previous screen using two-factor authentication. Once you’re done, you’ll automatically be directed to the next step. If you're using a phone number that can't receive two-factor authentication codes, you can request manual verification.

  8. Follow the instructions to upload your documentation. You’ll need to provide a current document that verifies your business name and address. Acceptable documents include business or legal records. If you’re displaying an alternate address, such as a P.O. Box, you’ll also need to provide documentation that reflects your association with this alternate address (for example, a receipt or bill). When you’re done, click Next.

  9. Review your information to make sure it’s correct, then click Confirm.

### Enter app-specific EU Digital Services Act compliance information

**Required role:** Account Holder and Admin. [View role
permissions.](/help/app-store-connect/reference/role-permissions)

If you need to change your trader status for one or more of your individual
apps, you can do so.

  1. In the homepage, click Apps.

  2. Select your app from the list.

  3. In the left sidebar, click App Information.

  4. Scroll to the App Store Regulations and Permits section.

  5. Under Digital Services Act, click Edit.

  6. In the pop-up window, change your trader status for that app. If you’re declaring yourself a trader for the first time, you’ll need to enter and verify your contact information that displays on your app’s App Store product page.

### Enter labels and markings URLs

**Required role:** Account Holder and Admin. [View role
permissions.](/help/app-store-connect/reference/role-permissions)

Under the Digital Services Act, you have the option to provide a Labels and
Markings URL to display labels or markings required by European Union law.
This URL will be visible on your App Store product pages for apps where you
have identified as a trader.

  1. In the homepage, click Apps.

  2. Select your app from the list.

  3. In the left sidebar, click App Information.

  4. Scroll to the App Store Regulations and Permits section.

  5. Click Add Labels and Markings.

  6. In the pop-up window, enter the URL and click Done. You can edit this URL at any time.

