Framework

# Accessibility

Make your apps accessible to everyone who uses Apple devices.

iOS 14.0+iPadOS 14.0+Mac Catalyst 14.0+macOS 11.0+tvOS 14.0+visionOS
1.0+watchOS 7.0+

## [Overview](/documentation/Accessibility#overview)

Accessibility features help a wide range of people interact with their
devices. By creating your app with accessibility in mind, you make it possible
for everyone to enjoy your app. Whether you’re developing a new app, or
updating an existing one, consider the needs of all the people who might use
your app.

For many, accessibility is a necessity. For others, it’s a practicality. For
example, closed captions can be necessary for someone who is deaf or hard of
hearing, but also useful for someone watching a video in a noisy environment.
Learn more about how to support different types of accessibility needs in your
app using Apple’s wide range of accessibility APIs.

[ Vision A person may be blind or color blind, or have a vision challenge that
makes focusing difficult. Learn More ](/documentation/accessibility/vision)

[ Speech A person may have a speech disability or prefer to connect without
using their voice. Learn More ](/documentation/accessibility/speech)

[ Mobility A person with reduced mobility may have difficulty holding a device
or tapping the interface. Learn More ](/documentation/accessibility/mobility)

[ Cognitive A person may have difficulty remembering a sequence of steps, or
they may find an overly complex user interface difficult to process and
manage. Learn More ](/documentation/accessibility/cognitive)

[ Hearing A person may be deaf, have partial hearing loss, or have difficulty
hearing sounds within a certain range. Learn More
](/documentation/accessibility/hearing)

### [Dive into featured sample apps](/documentation/Accessibility#Dive-into-
featured-sample-apps)

Explore how sample apps leverage accessible design principles and
accessibility APIs to create a great user experience for everyone.

[ Destination Video ](/documentation/visionOS/destination-video)

[ Happy Beam ](/documentation/visionOS/happybeam)

### [Explore assistive technologies](/documentation/Accessibility#Explore-
assistive-technologies)

People can personalize their devices by choosing the accessibility features
and assistive technologies that give them the best user experience. Make sure
your app provides a great experience for people who use assistive technologies
by testing your app with them.

[ VoiceOver A gesture-based screen reader that provides an auditory
description of the content onscreen. Learn More
](/documentation/accessibility/voiceover)

[ Voice Control An interface for navigating a device using voice commands to
tap, swipe, type, and more. Learn More ](/documentation/accessibility/voice-
control)

[ Switch Control An interface for navigating a device with a variety of
adaptive switch hardware, wireless game controllers, or sounds such as a click
or a pop. Learn More ](/documentation/accessibility/switch-control)

[ Assistive Access A mode that tailors the iOS and iPadOS experience for
people with cognitive disabilities. Learn More
](/documentation/accessibility/assistive-access)

### [Add Accessibility Nutrition Labels to your product
page](/documentation/Accessibility#Add-Accessibility-Nutrition-Labels-to-your-
product-page)

You can add Accessibility Nutrition Labels to your App Store product page to
indicate which accessibility features your app supports on each platform. For
example, a person who is blind or has low vision might seek apps that support
VoiceOver or Larger Text.

For more information on adding Accessibility Nutrition Labels to your app, see
[Overview of Accessibility Nutrition
Labels](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/manage-app-
accessibility/overview-of-accessibility-nutrition-labels) in App Store Connect
Help.

### [Related videos](/documentation/Accessibility#Related-videos)

[ Create accessible spatial experiences
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10034)

[ Build accessible apps with SwiftUI and UIKit
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10036)

[ Meet Assistive Access
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10032)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/D35E0E85-CCB6-41A1-B227-7995ECD83ED5/2C47B638-090D-4CBB-9E9E-EBE8114536D9/8132_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Design considerations for vision and motion
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10078)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/D35E0E85-CCB6-41A1-B227-7995ECD83ED5/0C1B59D8-1271-4A4D-BBD5-401BCFA4D855/8063_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Perform accessibility audits for your app
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10035)

[![](https://devimages-cdn.apple.com/wwdc-
services/images/D35E0E85-CCB6-41A1-B227-7995ECD83ED5/A93805E1-686D-4936-82A4-32403D14E4AE/8061_wide_250x141_1x.jpg)
Extend Speech Synthesis with personal and custom voices
](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10033)

## [Topics](/documentation/Accessibility#topics)

### [Essentials](/documentation/Accessibility#Essentials)

[Accessibility updates](/documentation/Updates/Accessibility)

Learn about important changes to Accessibility.

[Accessibility](/design/Human-Interface-Guidelines/accessibility)

Accessible user interfaces empower everyone to have a great experience with
your app or game.

[Performing accessibility testing for your
app](/documentation/accessibility/performing-accessibility-testing-for-your-
app)

Test your app with accessibility settings and assistive technologies to
discover and address accessibility issues.

### [Sample code](/documentation/Accessibility#Sample-code)

[Enhancing the accessibility of your SwiftUI
app](/documentation/accessibility/enhancing-the-accessibility-of-your-swiftui-
app)

Support advancements in SwiftUI accessibility to make your app accessible to
everyone.

[Creating Accessible Views](/documentation/swiftui/creating_accessible_views)

Make your app accessible to everyone by applying accessibility modifiers to
your SwiftUI views.

[Delivering an exceptional accessibility
experience](/documentation/accessibility/delivering_an_exceptional_accessibility_experience)

Make improvements to your app’s interaction model to support assistive
technologies such as VoiceOver.

[Integrating accessibility into your
app](/documentation/accessibility/integrating_accessibility_into_your_app)

Make your app more accessible to users with disabilities by adding
accessibility features.

[Accessibility design for Mac
Catalyst](/documentation/accessibility/accessibility_design_for_mac_catalyst)

Improve navigation in your app by using keyboard shortcuts and accessibility
containers.

### [Domains](/documentation/Accessibility#Domains)

[API ReferenceVision](/documentation/accessibility/vision)

A person may be blind or color blind, or have a vision challenge that makes
focusing difficult.

[API ReferenceSpeech](/documentation/accessibility/speech)

A person may have a speech disability or prefer to connect without using their
voice.

[API ReferenceMobility](/documentation/accessibility/mobility)

A person with reduced mobility may have difficulty holding a device or tapping
the interface.

[API ReferenceCognitive](/documentation/accessibility/cognitive)

A person may have difficulty remembering a sequence of steps, or they may find
an overly complex user interface difficult to process and manage.

[API ReferenceHearing](/documentation/accessibility/hearing)

A person may be deaf, have partial hearing loss, or have difficulty hearing
sounds within a certain range.

### [Developer tools](/documentation/Accessibility#Developer-tools)

[API ReferenceAccessibility
Inspector](/documentation/accessibility/accessibility-inspector)

Reveal how your app represents itself to people using accessibility features.

### [Assistive technologies](/documentation/Accessibility#Assistive-
technologies)

[API ReferenceAssistive technologies](/documentation/accessibility/assistive-
technologies)

Make sure your app provides a great experience for people who use assistive
technologies.

### [Accessibility framework](/documentation/Accessibility#Accessibility-
framework)

[API ReferenceAccessibility API](/documentation/accessibility/accessibility-
api)

Browse API in the Accessibility framework.

### [Platforms](/documentation/Accessibility#Platforms)

[Accessibility fundamentals](/documentation/SwiftUI/Accessibility-
fundamentals)

Make your SwiftUI apps accessible to everyone, including people with
disabilities.

[Accessibility for UIKit](/documentation/UIKit/accessibility-for-uikit)

Make your UIKit apps accessible to everyone who uses iOS and tvOS.

[Accessibility for AppKit](/documentation/AppKit/accessibility-for-appkit)

Make your AppKit apps accessible to everyone who uses macOS.

[API ReferenceAccessibility for
visionOS](/documentation/accessibility/accessibility-for-visionos)

Make your apps accessible to everyone who uses visionOS.

### [WWDC Challenges](/documentation/Accessibility#WWDC-Challenges)

[WWDC22 Challenge: Learn Switch Control through
gaming](/documentation/accessibility/wwdc22_challenge_learn_switch_control_through_gaming)

Play a card-matching game using Switch Control.

[WWDC21 Challenge: Large Text
Challenge](/documentation/accessibility/wwdc21_challenge_large_text_challenge)

Design for large text sizes by modifying the user interface.

[WWDC21 Challenge: Speech Synthesizer
Simulator](/documentation/accessibility/wwdc21_challenge_speech_synthesizer_simulator)

Simulate a conversation using speech synthesis.

[WWDC21 Challenge: VoiceOver
Maze](/documentation/accessibility/wwdc21_challenge_voiceover_maze)

Navigate to the end of a dark maze using VoiceOver as your guide.

  * [ Accessibility ](/documentation/Accessibility#app-top)
  * [ Overview ](/documentation/Accessibility#overview)
  * [ Dive into featured sample apps ](/documentation/Accessibility#Dive-into-featured-sample-apps)
  * [ Explore assistive technologies ](/documentation/Accessibility#Explore-assistive-technologies)
  * [ Add Accessibility Nutrition Labels to your product page ](/documentation/Accessibility#Add-Accessibility-Nutrition-Labels-to-your-product-page)
  * [ Related videos ](/documentation/Accessibility#Related-videos)
  * [ Topics ](/documentation/Accessibility#topics)

